##################################################
#### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED FROM
#### https://github.com/Khan/kotlin-for-python-developers
#### branch master
#### file   07-collections.md
#### links were in the file! 
#### HEADER below IS GENERATED! 
##################################################

---
type: tutorial 
layout: tutorial 
title: "Collections"
github_edit_url: https://github.com/Khan/kotlin-for-python-developers/edit/master/README.md
---

Arrays in Kotlin have a constant length, so one normally uses lists, which are similar to the ones in Python. What's called a _dict_ in Python is called a _map_ in Kotlin (not to be confused with the function `map()`). `List`, `Map`, and `Set` are all _interfaces_ which are implemented by many different classes. In most situations, a standard array-backed list or hash-based map or set will do, and you can easily make those like this:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
val strings = listOf("Anne", "Karen", "Peter") // List<String>
val map = mapOf("a" to 1, "b" to 2, "c" to 3)  // Map<String, Int>
val set = setOf("a", "b", "c")                 // Set<String>
```
</div>



(Note that `to` is an [infix function](classes.html#infix-functions) that creates a `Pair` containing a key and a value, from which the map is constructed.) The resulting collections are immutable - you can neither change their size nor replace their elements - however, the elements themselves may still be mutable objects. For mutable collections, do this:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
val strings = mutableListOf("Anne", "Karen", "Peter")
val map = mutableMapOf("a" to 1, "b" to 2, "c" to 3)
val set = mutableSetOf("a", "b", "c")
```
</div>



You can get the size/length of a collection `c` with `c.size` (except for string objects, where you for legacy Java reasons must use `s.length` instead).

Unfortunately, if you want an empty collection, you need to either declare the resulting collection type explicitly, or supply the element type(s) to the function that constructs the collection:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
val noInts: List<Int> = listOf()
val noStrings = listOf<String>()
val emptyMap = mapOf<String, Int>()
```
</div>



The types inside the angle brackets are called _generic type parameters_, which we will cover later. In short, it's a useful technique to make a class that is tied to another class (such as a container class, which is tied to its element class) applicable to many different classes.

If you really really need a mixed-type collection, you can use the element type `Any` - but you'll need typecasting to get the elements back to their proper type again, so if what you want is a multiple-value return from a function, please use the per-element-typed `Pair` or `Triple` instead. If you need four or more elements, consider making a [data class](classes.html#data-classes) for the return type instead (which you should ideally do for two or three elements as well, especially if it's a public function, since it gives you proper names for the elements) - it's very easy and usually a oneliner.




---

[← Previous: Conditionals](conditionals.html) | [Next: Loops →](loops.html)


---

_This material was written by [Aasmund Eldhuset](https://eldhuset.net/); it is owned by [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) and is licensed for use under [CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 US](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/). Please note that this is not a part of Khan Academy's official product offering._