##################################################
#### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED FROM
#### https://github.com/Khan/kotlin-for-python-developers
#### branch master
#### file   19-extension-functionsproperties.md
#### links were in the file! 
#### HEADER below IS GENERATED! 
##################################################

---
type: tutorial 
layout: tutorial 
title: "Extension functions/properties"
github_edit_url: https://github.com/Khan/kotlin-for-python-developers/edit/master/README.md
---

Since you can't modify built-in or third-party classes, you can't directly add functions or properties to them. If you can achieve what you want by only using the public members of a class, you can of course just write a function that takes an instance of the class as a parameter - but sometimes, you'd really like to be able to say `x.foo(y)` instead of `foo(x, y)`,  especially if you want to make a chain of such calls or property lookups: `x.foo(y).bar().baz` instead of `getBaz(bar(foo(x, y)))`. 

There is a nice piece of syntactic sugar that lets you do this: _extension functions_ and _extension properties_. They look like regular member functions/properties, but they are defined outside of any class - yet they reference the class name and can use `this`. However, they can only use visible members of the class (typically just the public ones). Behind the scenes, they get compiled down to regular functions that take the target instance as a parameter.

For example, if you work a lot with bytes, you might want to easily get an unsigned byte in the range 0 through 255 instead of the default -128 through 127 (the result will have to be in the form of a `Short`/`Int`/`Long`, though). `Byte` is a built-in class that you can't modify, but you can define this extension function:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
fun Byte.toUnsigned(): Int {
    return if (this < 0) this + 256 else this.toInt()
}
```
</div>



Now, you can do:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
val x: Byte = -1
println(x.toUnsigned()) // Prints 255
```
</div>



If you'd rather do `x.unsigned`, you can define an extension property:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
val Byte.unsigned: Int
    get() = if (this < 0) this + 256 else this.toInt()
```
</div>



Keep in mind that this is just syntactic sugar - you're not actually modifying the class or its instances. Therefore, you have to import an extension function/property wherever you want to use it (since it isn't carried along with the instances of the class). For the same reason, you can not override extension members - you can reimplement them for subtypes, but the resolution happens at compile-time based on the static type of the expression you're invoking it on. So if you declare an extension function for `Vehicle`, and one with the same name and signature for its subclass `Car`, and you do the following, it's the extension function on `Vehicle` that will be called, even though `v` is really a `Car`:

<div class="sample" markdown="1" theme="idea" data-highlight-only>

```kotlin
fun foo(v: Vehicle) = v.extension()
val x = foo(Car())
```
</div>



There are a lot of built-in extension functions/properties in Kotlin - for example, `map()`, `filter()`, and the rest of the framework for processing collections in a functional manner is built using extension functions.




---

[← Previous: Generics](generics.html) | [Next: Member references and reflection →](member-references-and-reflection.html)


---

_This material was written by [Aasmund Eldhuset](https://eldhuset.net/); it is owned by [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) and is licensed for use under [CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 US](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/). Please note that this is not a part of Khan Academy's official product offering._