docs/topics/gradle/gradle-compiler-options.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Compiler options in the Kotlin Gradle plugin)

Each release of Kotlin includes compilers for the supported targets:
JVM, JavaScript, and native binaries for [supported platforms](native-overview.md#target-platforms).

These compilers are used by:
* The IDE, when you click the __Compile__ or __Run__ button for your Kotlin project.
* Gradle, when you call `gradle build` in a console or in the IDE.
* Maven, when you call `mvn compile` or `mvn test-compile` in a console or in the IDE.

You can also run Kotlin compilers manually from the command line as described
in the [Working with command-line compiler](command-line.md) tutorial.

## How to define options

Kotlin compilers have a number of options for tailoring the compiling process.

Using a build script, you can specify additional compilation options. Use the `compilerOptions` property of a Kotlin compilation task for it. 
For example:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
tasks.named("compileKotlin", org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask::class.java) {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
tasks.named('compileKotlin', org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask.class) {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Target the JVM

JVM compilation tasks are called `compileKotlin` for production code and `compileTestKotlin`
for test code. The tasks for custom source sets are named according to their `compile<Name>Kotlin` patterns.

The names of the tasks in Android Projects contain [build variant](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/build-variants.html)
names and follow the `compile<BuildVariant>Kotlin` pattern, for example, `compileDebugKotlin` or `compileReleaseUnitTestKotlin`.

For both the JVM and Android projects, it's possible to define options using the project Kotlin extension DSL:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        apiVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleApiVersion%)
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        apiVersion = org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleApiVersion%
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Some important details to be aware of:

* The `android.kotlinOptions` and `kotlin.compilerOptions` configuration blocks override each other. The last (lowest) block takes effect.
* `kotlin.compilerOptions` configures every Kotlin compilation task in the project.
* You can override the configuration applied by `kotlin.compilerOptions` DSL using the `tasks.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlin") { }`
  (or `tasks.withType<KotlinJvmCompile>().configureEach { }`) approach.

### Target JavaScript

JavaScript compilation tasks are called `compileKotlinJs` for production code, `compileTestKotlinJs` for test code, and `compile<Name>KotlinJs` for custom source sets.

To configure a single task, use its name:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

val compileKotlin: KotlinCompilationTask<*> by tasks

compileKotlin.compilerOptions.suppressWarnings.set(true)
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions {
        suppressWarnings = true
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Note that with the Gradle Kotlin DSL, you should get the task from the project's `tasks` first.

Use the `Kotlin2JsCompile` and `KotlinCompileCommon` types for JS and common targets, respectively.

### For all Kotlin compilation tasks

It is also possible to configure all of the Kotlin compilation tasks in the project:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named<KotlinCompilationTask<*>>("compileKotlin").configure {
    compilerOptions { /*...*/ }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions { /*...*/ }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

## All compiler options

Here is a complete list of options for Gradle tasks:

### Common attributes

| Name              | Description                                                                              | Possible values           | Default value |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|
| `optIn`           | A property for configuring a list of [opt-in compiler arguments](opt-in-requirements.md) | `listOf( /* opt-ins */ )` | `emptyList()` |
| `progressiveMode` | Enables the [progressive compiler mode](whatsnew13.md#progressive-mode)                  | `true`, `false`           | `false`       |

### Attributes specific to JVM

| Name                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Possible values                                                                                         | Default value               |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `javaParameters`          | Generate metadata for Java 1.8 reflection on method parameters                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                         | false                       |
| `jvmTarget`               | Target version of the generated JVM bytecode                                                                                                                                                                                                  | "1.8", "9", "10", ...,  "21", "22". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "%defaultJvmTargetVersion%" |
| `noJdk`                   | Don't automatically include the Java runtime into the classpath                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                         | false                       |
| `jvmTargetValidationMode` | <list><li>Validation of the [JVM target compatibility](gradle-configure-project.md#check-for-jvm-target-compatibility-of-related-compile-tasks) between Kotlin and Java</li><li>A property for tasks of the `KotlinCompile` type.</li></list> | `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `INFO`                                                                              | `ERROR`                     |

### Attributes common to JVM and JS

| Name | Description | Possible values                                                |Default value |
|------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `allWarningsAsErrors` | Report an error if there are any warnings |                                                                | false |
| `suppressWarnings` | Don't generate warnings |                                                                | false |
| `verbose` | Enable verbose logging output. Works only when the [Gradle debug log level enabled](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/logging.html) |                                                                | false |
| `freeCompilerArgs` | A list of additional compiler arguments. You can use experimental `-X` arguments here too. See an [example](#example-of-additional-arguments-usage-via-freecompilerargs) |                                                                | [] |
| `apiVersion`      | Restrict the use of declarations to those from the specified version of bundled libraries | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |               |
| `languageVersion` | Provide source compatibility with the specified version of Kotlin                         | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL)  |               |


> We are going to deprecate the attribute `freeCompilerArgs` in future releases. If you miss some option in the Kotlin Gradle DSL,
> please, [file an issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/newissue?project=kt).
>
{style="warning"}

#### Example of additional arguments usage via freeCompilerArgs {initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true"}

Use the attribute `freeCompilerArgs` to supply additional (including experimental) compiler arguments. You can add a single
argument to this attribute or a list of arguments:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

val compileKotlin: KotlinCompilationTask<*> by tasks

// Single experimental argument
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
// Single additional argument, can be a key-value pair
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xno-param-assertions")
// List of arguments
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.addAll(listOf("-Xno-receiver-assertions", "-Xno-call-assertions"))
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions {
        // Single experimental argument
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
        // Single additional argument, can be a key-value pair
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xno-param-assertions")
        // List of arguments
        freeCompilerArgs.addAll(["-Xno-receiver-assertions", "-Xno-call-assertions"])
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

#### Example of setting a languageVersion

To set a language version, use the following syntax:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
tasks
    .withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinJvmCompile>()
    .configureEach {
        compilerOptions
            .languageVersion
            .set(
                org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%
            )
    }
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
tasks
    .withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask.class)
    .configureEach {
        compilerOptions.languageVersion =
            org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%
    }
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options).

### Attributes specific to JS

| Name | Description | Possible values |Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| `friendModulesDisabled` | Disable internal declaration export| | false |
| `main` | Define whether the `main` function should be called upon execution | "call", "noCall". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "call" |
| `metaInfo` | Generate .meta.js and .kjsm files with metadata. Use to create a library | | true |
| `moduleKind` | The kind of JS module generated by the compiler | "umd", "commonjs", "amd", "plain", "es". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "umd" |
| `outputFile` | Destination *.js file for the compilation result | | "&lt;buildDir&gt;/js/packages/<project.name>/kotlin/<project.name>.js" |
| `sourceMap` | Generate source map | | true |
| `sourceMapEmbedSources` | Embed source files into the source map | "never", "always", "inlining". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) |  |
| `sourceMapNamesPolicy` | Add variable and function names that you declared in Kotlin code into the source map. For more information on the behavior, see our [compiler reference](compiler-reference.md#source-map-names-policy-simple-names-fully-qualified-names-no). | "simple-names", "fully-qualified-names", "no". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options)                                                              | "simple-names" |
| `sourceMapPrefix` | Add the specified prefix to paths in the source map |  |  |
| `target` | Generate JS files for specific ECMA version  | "v5"  | "v5" |
| `typedArrays` | Translate primitive arrays to JS typed arrays | | true |

### Types for compiler options

Some of the `compilerOptions` use the new types instead of the `String` type:

| Option                             | Type                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Example                                                                                              |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `jvmTarget`                        | [`JvmTarget`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JvmTarget.kt)                                     | `compilerOptions.jvmTarget.set(JvmTarget.JVM_11)`                                                    |
| `apiVersion` and `languageVersion` | [`KotlinVersion`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/KotlinVersion.kt)                             | `compilerOptions.languageVersion.set(KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%)`                         |
| `main`                             | [`JsMainFunctionExecutionMode`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsMainFunctionExecutionMode.kt) | `compilerOptions.main.set(JsMainFunctionExecutionMode.NO_CALL)`                                      |
| `moduleKind`                       | [`JsModuleKind`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsModuleKind.kt)                               | `compilerOptions.moduleKind.set(JsModuleKind.MODULE_ES)`                                             |
| `sourceMapEmbedSources`            | [`JsSourceMapEmbedMode`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsSourceMapEmbedMode.kt)               | `compilerOptions.sourceMapEmbedSources.set(JsSourceMapEmbedMode.SOURCE_MAP_SOURCE_CONTENT_INLINING)` |
| `sourceMapNamesPolicy`             | [`JsSourceMapNamesPolicy`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsSourceMapNamesPolicy.kt)           | `compilerOptions.sourceMapNamesPolicy.set(JsSourceMapNamesPolicy.SOURCE_MAP_NAMES_POLICY_FQ_NAMES)`  |

## What's next?

Learn more about:
* [Incremental compilation, caches support, build reports, and the Kotlin daemon](gradle-compilation-and-caches.md).
* [Gradle basics and specifics](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/userguide.html).
* [Support for Gradle plugin variants](gradle-plugin-variants.md).

Commit message:

feat: extra warnings compiler option

docs/topics/gradle/gradle-compiler-options.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Compiler options in the Kotlin Gradle plugin)

Each release of Kotlin includes compilers for the supported targets:
JVM, JavaScript, and native binaries for [supported platforms](native-overview.md#target-platforms).

These compilers are used by:
* The IDE, when you click the __Compile__ or __Run__ button for your Kotlin project.
* Gradle, when you call `gradle build` in a console or in the IDE.
* Maven, when you call `mvn compile` or `mvn test-compile` in a console or in the IDE.

You can also run Kotlin compilers manually from the command line as described
in the [Working with command-line compiler](command-line.md) tutorial.

## How to define options

Kotlin compilers have a number of options for tailoring the compiling process.

Using a build script, you can specify additional compilation options. Use the `compilerOptions` property of a Kotlin compilation task for it. 
For example:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
tasks.named("compileKotlin", org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask::class.java) {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
tasks.named('compileKotlin', org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask.class) {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

### Target the JVM

JVM compilation tasks are called `compileKotlin` for production code and `compileTestKotlin`
for test code. The tasks for custom source sets are named according to their `compile<Name>Kotlin` patterns.

The names of the tasks in Android Projects contain [build variant](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/build-variants.html)
names and follow the `compile<BuildVariant>Kotlin` pattern, for example, `compileDebugKotlin` or `compileReleaseUnitTestKotlin`.

For both the JVM and Android projects, it's possible to define options using the project Kotlin extension DSL:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        apiVersion.set(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleApiVersion%)
    }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        apiVersion = org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleApiVersion%
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Some important details to be aware of:

* The `android.kotlinOptions` and `kotlin.compilerOptions` configuration blocks override each other. The last (lowest) block takes effect.
* `kotlin.compilerOptions` configures every Kotlin compilation task in the project.
* You can override the configuration applied by `kotlin.compilerOptions` DSL using the `tasks.named<KotlinJvmCompile>("compileKotlin") { }`
  (or `tasks.withType<KotlinJvmCompile>().configureEach { }`) approach.

### Target JavaScript

JavaScript compilation tasks are called `compileKotlinJs` for production code, `compileTestKotlinJs` for test code, and `compile<Name>KotlinJs` for custom source sets.

To configure a single task, use its name:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

val compileKotlin: KotlinCompilationTask<*> by tasks

compileKotlin.compilerOptions.suppressWarnings.set(true)
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions {
        suppressWarnings = true
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Note that with the Gradle Kotlin DSL, you should get the task from the project's `tasks` first.

Use the `Kotlin2JsCompile` and `KotlinCompileCommon` types for JS and common targets, respectively.

### For all Kotlin compilation tasks

It is also possible to configure all of the Kotlin compilation tasks in the project:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named<KotlinCompilationTask<*>>("compileKotlin").configure {
    compilerOptions { /*...*/ }
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions { /*...*/ }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

## All compiler options

Here is a complete list of options for Gradle tasks:

### Common attributes

| Name              | Description                                                                                                                              | Possible values           | Default value |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|
| `optIn`           | A property for configuring a list of [opt-in compiler arguments](opt-in-requirements.md)                                                 | `listOf( /* opt-ins */ )` | `emptyList()` |
| `progressiveMode` | Enables the [progressive compiler mode](whatsnew13.md#progressive-mode)                                                                  | `true`, `false`           | `false`       |
| `extraWarnings`   | Enables additional declaration, expression, and type [compiler checks](whatsnew-eap.md#extra-compiler-checks) that emit warnings if true | `true`, `false`           | `false`       |

### Attributes specific to JVM

| Name                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Possible values                                                                                         | Default value               |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `javaParameters`          | Generate metadata for Java 1.8 reflection on method parameters                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                         | false                       |
| `jvmTarget`               | Target version of the generated JVM bytecode                                                                                                                                                                                                  | "1.8", "9", "10", ...,  "21", "22". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "%defaultJvmTargetVersion%" |
| `noJdk`                   | Don't automatically include the Java runtime into the classpath                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                                         | false                       |
| `jvmTargetValidationMode` | <list><li>Validation of the [JVM target compatibility](gradle-configure-project.md#check-for-jvm-target-compatibility-of-related-compile-tasks) between Kotlin and Java</li><li>A property for tasks of the `KotlinCompile` type.</li></list> | `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `INFO`                                                                              | `ERROR`                     |

### Attributes common to JVM and JS

| Name | Description | Possible values                                                |Default value |
|------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `allWarningsAsErrors` | Report an error if there are any warnings |                                                                | false |
| `suppressWarnings` | Don't generate warnings |                                                                | false |
| `verbose` | Enable verbose logging output. Works only when the [Gradle debug log level enabled](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/logging.html) |                                                                | false |
| `freeCompilerArgs` | A list of additional compiler arguments. You can use experimental `-X` arguments here too. See an [example](#example-of-additional-arguments-usage-via-freecompilerargs) |                                                                | [] |
| `apiVersion`      | Restrict the use of declarations to those from the specified version of bundled libraries | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |               |
| `languageVersion` | Provide source compatibility with the specified version of Kotlin                         | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL)  |               |


> We are going to deprecate the attribute `freeCompilerArgs` in future releases. If you miss some option in the Kotlin Gradle DSL,
> please, [file an issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/newissue?project=kt).
>
{style="warning"}

#### Example of additional arguments usage via freeCompilerArgs {initial-collapse-state="collapsed" collapsible="true"}

Use the attribute `freeCompilerArgs` to supply additional (including experimental) compiler arguments. You can add a single
argument to this attribute or a list of arguments:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

val compileKotlin: KotlinCompilationTask<*> by tasks

// Single experimental argument
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
// Single additional argument, can be a key-value pair
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xno-param-assertions")
// List of arguments
compileKotlin.compilerOptions.freeCompilerArgs.addAll(listOf("-Xno-receiver-assertions", "-Xno-call-assertions"))
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
import org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask
// ...

tasks.named('compileKotlin', KotlinCompilationTask) {
    compilerOptions {
        // Single experimental argument
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xexport-kdoc")
        // Single additional argument, can be a key-value pair
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xno-param-assertions")
        // List of arguments
        freeCompilerArgs.addAll(["-Xno-receiver-assertions", "-Xno-call-assertions"])
    }
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

#### Example of setting a languageVersion

To set a language version, use the following syntax:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
tasks
    .withType<org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinJvmCompile>()
    .configureEach {
        compilerOptions
            .languageVersion
            .set(
                org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%
            )
    }
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
tasks
    .withType(org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks.KotlinCompilationTask.class)
    .configureEach {
        compilerOptions.languageVersion =
            org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.dsl.KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%
    }
```

</tab>
</tabs>

Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options).

### Attributes specific to JS

| Name | Description | Possible values |Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| `friendModulesDisabled` | Disable internal declaration export| | false |
| `main` | Define whether the `main` function should be called upon execution | "call", "noCall". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "call" |
| `metaInfo` | Generate .meta.js and .kjsm files with metadata. Use to create a library | | true |
| `moduleKind` | The kind of JS module generated by the compiler | "umd", "commonjs", "amd", "plain", "es". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) | "umd" |
| `outputFile` | Destination *.js file for the compilation result | | "&lt;buildDir&gt;/js/packages/<project.name>/kotlin/<project.name>.js" |
| `sourceMap` | Generate source map | | true |
| `sourceMapEmbedSources` | Embed source files into the source map | "never", "always", "inlining". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options) |  |
| `sourceMapNamesPolicy` | Add variable and function names that you declared in Kotlin code into the source map. For more information on the behavior, see our [compiler reference](compiler-reference.md#source-map-names-policy-simple-names-fully-qualified-names-no). | "simple-names", "fully-qualified-names", "no". Also, see [Types for compiler options](#types-for-compiler-options)                                                              | "simple-names" |
| `sourceMapPrefix` | Add the specified prefix to paths in the source map |  |  |
| `target` | Generate JS files for specific ECMA version  | "v5"  | "v5" |
| `typedArrays` | Translate primitive arrays to JS typed arrays | | true |

### Types for compiler options

Some of the `compilerOptions` use the new types instead of the `String` type:

| Option                             | Type                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Example                                                                                              |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `jvmTarget`                        | [`JvmTarget`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JvmTarget.kt)                                     | `compilerOptions.jvmTarget.set(JvmTarget.JVM_11)`                                                    |
| `apiVersion` and `languageVersion` | [`KotlinVersion`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/KotlinVersion.kt)                             | `compilerOptions.languageVersion.set(KotlinVersion.%gradleLanguageVersion%)`                         |
| `main`                             | [`JsMainFunctionExecutionMode`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsMainFunctionExecutionMode.kt) | `compilerOptions.main.set(JsMainFunctionExecutionMode.NO_CALL)`                                      |
| `moduleKind`                       | [`JsModuleKind`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsModuleKind.kt)                               | `compilerOptions.moduleKind.set(JsModuleKind.MODULE_ES)`                                             |
| `sourceMapEmbedSources`            | [`JsSourceMapEmbedMode`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsSourceMapEmbedMode.kt)               | `compilerOptions.sourceMapEmbedSources.set(JsSourceMapEmbedMode.SOURCE_MAP_SOURCE_CONTENT_INLINING)` |
| `sourceMapNamesPolicy`             | [`JsSourceMapNamesPolicy`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-gradle-compiler-types/src/generated/kotlin/org/jetbrains/kotlin/gradle/dsl/JsSourceMapNamesPolicy.kt)           | `compilerOptions.sourceMapNamesPolicy.set(JsSourceMapNamesPolicy.SOURCE_MAP_NAMES_POLICY_FQ_NAMES)`  |

## What's next?

Learn more about:
* [Incremental compilation, caches support, build reports, and the Kotlin daemon](gradle-compilation-and-caches.md).
* [Gradle basics and specifics](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/userguide.html).
* [Support for Gradle plugin variants](gradle-plugin-variants.md).
