[//]: # (title: JavaScript modules)

You can compile your Kotlin projects to JavaScript modules for various popular module systems. We currently support the
following configurations for JavaScript modules:

- [Unified Module Definitions (UMD)](https://github.com/umdjs/umd), which is compatible with both *AMD* and *CommonJS*.
    UMD modules are also able to be executed without being imported or when no module system is present. This is the default option for the `browser` and `nodejs` targets.
- [Asynchronous Module Definitions (AMD)](https://github.com/amdjs/amdjs-api/wiki/AMD), which is in particular
   used by the [RequireJS](https://requirejs.org/) library.
- [CommonJS](http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/Modules/1.1), widely used by Node.js/npm
   (`require` function and `module.exports` object)
- Plain. Don't compile for any module system. You can access a module by its name in the global scope.

## Browser targets
 
If you're targeting the browser and want to use a different module system than UMD, you can specify the desired module
type in the `webpackTask` configuration block. For example, to switch to CommonJS, use:
 
```groovy
kotlin {
    js {
        browser {
            webpackTask {
                output.libraryTarget = "commonjs2"
            }
        }
        binaries.executable()
    }
}

```

Webpack provides two different "flavors" of CommonJS, `commonjs` and `commonjs2`, which affect the way your declarations
are made available. While in most cases, you probably want `commonjs2`, which adds the `module.exports` syntax to the
generated library, you can also opt for the "pure" `commonjs` option, which implements the CommonJS specification exactly.
To learn more about the difference between `commonjs` and `commonjs2`, check [here](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/1114).

## JavaScript libraries and Node.js files

If you are creating a library that will be consumed from JavaScript or a Node.js file, and want to use a different module
system, the instructions are slightly different.

### Choose the target module system

To select module kind, set the `moduleKind` compiler option in the Gradle build script.

<tabs>

```groovy
compileKotlinJs.kotlinOptions.moduleKind = "commonjs"

```

```kotlin
tasks.named<KotlinJsCompile>("compileKotlinJs").configure {
    kotlinOptions.moduleKind = "commonjs"
}
```

</tabs>

Available values are: `umd` (default), `commonjs`, `amd`, `plain`.

> This is different from adjusting `webpackTask.output.libraryTarget`. The library target changes the output
> _generated by webpack_ (after your code has already been compiled). `kotlinOptions.moduleKind` changes the output generated
> _by the Kotlin compiler_.
>
{type="note"}  

In the Kotlin Gradle DSL, there is also a shortcut for setting the CommonJS module kind:

```kotlin
kotlin {
    js {
         useCommonJs()
         // . . .
    }
}
```

## @JsModule annotation

To tell Kotlin that an `external` class, package, function or property is a JavaScript module, you can use `@JsModule`
annotation. Consider you have the following CommonJS module called "hello":

```javascript
module.exports.sayHello = function(name) { alert("Hello, " + name); }
```

You should declare it like this in Kotlin:

```kotlin
@JsModule("hello")
external fun sayHello(name: String)
```

### Apply @JsModule to packages

Some JavaScript libraries export packages (namespaces) instead of functions and classes.
In terms of JavaScript, it's an *object* that has *members* that are classes, functions and properties.
Importing these packages as Kotlin objects often looks unnatural.
The compiler can map imported JavaScript packages to Kotlin packages, using the following notation:

```kotlin
@file:JsModule("extModule")
package ext.jspackage.name

external fun foo()

external class C
```

where the corresponding JavaScript module is declared like this:

```javascript
module.exports = {
    foo:  { /* some code here */ },
    C:  { /* some code here */ }
}
```

Files marked with `@file:JsModule` annotation can't declare non-external members.
The example below produces a compile-time error:

```kotlin
@file:JsModule("extModule")
package ext.jspackage.name

external fun foo()

fun bar() = "!" + foo() + "!" // error here
```

### Import deeper package hierarchies

In the previous example the JavaScript module exports a single package.
However, some JavaScript libraries export multiple packages from within a module.
This case is also supported by Kotlin, though you have to declare a new `.kt` file for each package you import.

For example, let's make the example a bit more complicated:

```javascript
module.exports = {
    mylib: {
        pkg1: {
            foo: function() { /* some code here */ },
            bar: function() { /* some code here */ }
        },
        pkg2: {
            baz: function() { /* some code here */ }
        }
    }
}
```

To import this module in Kotlin, you have to write two Kotlin source files:

```kotlin
@file:JsModule("extModule")
@file:JsQualifier("mylib.pkg1")
package extlib.pkg1

external fun foo()

external fun bar()
```

and

```kotlin
@file:JsModule("extModule")
@file:JsQualifier("mylib.pkg2")
package extlib.pkg2

external fun baz()
```

### @JsNonModule annotation

When a declaration is marked as `@JsModule`, you can't use it from Kotlin code when you don't compile it to a JavaScript module.
Usually, developers distribute their libraries both as JavaScript modules and downloadable `.js` files that you
can copy to your project's static resources and include via a `<script>` tag. To tell Kotlin that it's okay to use a
`@JsModule` declaration from a non-module environment, add the `@JsNonModule` annotation. For example, consider the
following JavaScript code:

```javascript
function topLevelSayHello(name) { alert("Hello, " + name); }
if (module && module.exports) {
    module.exports = topLevelSayHello;
}
```

You could describe it from Kotlin as follows:

```kotlin
@JsModule("hello")
@JsNonModule
@JsName("topLevelSayHello")
external fun sayHello(name: String)
```

### Module system used by the Kotlin Standard Library

Kotlin is distributed with the Kotlin/JS standard library as a single file, which is itself compiled as an UMD module,
so you can use it with any module system described above. While for most use cases of Kotlin/JS, it is recommended to use
a Gradle dependency on `kotlin-stdlib-js`, it is also available on NPM as the [`kotlin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/kotlin)
package.