docs/topics/characters.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Characters)

Characters are represented by the type `Char`. Character literals go in single quotes: `'1'`.

Special characters start from an escaping backslash `\`.
The following escape sequences are supported: 

* `\t` – tab
* `\b` – backspace
* `\n` – new line (LF)
* `\r` – carriage return (CR)
* `\'` – single quotation mark
* `\"` – double quotation mark
* `\\` – backslash
* `\$` – dollar sign

To encode any other character, use the Unicode escape sequence syntax: `'\uFF00'`.

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val aChar: Char = 'a'
 
    println(aChar)
    println('\n') // Prints an extra newline character
    println('\uFF00')
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

If a value of character variable is a digit, you can explicitly convert it to an `Int` number using the [`digitToInt()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/digit-to-int.html) function.

> **On JVM**: Like [numbers](numbers.md#numbers-representation-on-the-jvm), characters are boxed when a nullable reference is needed.
> Identity is not preserved by the boxing operation.
>
{type="note"}

Commit message:

update to boolean and character sizes in memory and information about inline classes (#3920)
* update to boolean and character sizes in memory and about mangling

small updates to boolean and char about their sizes in JVM and binary incompatibility of changing type from unsigned to its signed counterpart

* some minor fixes + changed utype list to a table

Implementing some minor fixes and changing utype list to a table

* added information about the size of strings as well

added information about the size of strings as well

* implemented comments

implemented comments.

* further clarified mangling based on comments

further clarified mangling based on comments.

* implementing comments

implementing comments regarding conversion between signed and unsigned ints

* implemented comments to further enhance readability

implemented comments to further enhance readability.

docs/topics/characters.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Characters)

Characters are represented by the type `Char`.
Character literals go in single quotes: `'1'`.

> On the JVM, a character stored as primitive type: `char`, represents a 16-bit Unicode character.
>
{type="note"}

Special characters start from an escaping backslash `\`.
The following escape sequences are supported: 

* `\t` – tab
* `\b` – backspace
* `\n` – new line (LF)
* `\r` – carriage return (CR)
* `\'` – single quotation mark
* `\"` – double quotation mark
* `\\` – backslash
* `\$` – dollar sign

To encode any other character, use the Unicode escape sequence syntax: `'\uFF00'`.

```kotlin
fun main() {
//sampleStart
    val aChar: Char = 'a'
 
    println(aChar)
    println('\n') // Prints an extra newline character
    println('\uFF00')
//sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3"}

If a value of character variable is a digit, you can explicitly convert it to an `Int` number using the [`digitToInt()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/digit-to-int.html) function.

> On the JVM, characters are boxed in Java classes when a nullable reference is needed, just like with [numbers](numbers.md#numbers-representation-on-the-jvm).
> Identity is not preserved by the boxing operation.
>
{type="note"}
