docs/topics/lambdas.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Higher-order functions and lambdas)

Kotlin functions are [first-class](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-class_function), which means they can
be stored in variables and data structures, and can be passed as arguments to and returned from other
[higher-order functions](#higher-order-functions). You can perform any operations on functions that are possible for other
non-function values.

To facilitate this, Kotlin, as a statically typed programming language, uses a family of
[function types](#function-types) to represent functions, and provides a set of specialized language constructs, such as
[lambda expressions](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions).

## Higher-order functions

A higher-order function is a function that takes functions as parameters, or returns a function.

A good example of a higher-order function is the [functional programming idiom `fold`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fold_(higher-order_function))
for collections. It takes an initial accumulator value and a combining function and builds its return value by consecutively
combining the current accumulator value with each collection element, replacing the accumulator value each time:

```kotlin
fun <T, R> Collection<T>.fold(
    initial: R, 
    combine: (acc: R, nextElement: T) -> R
): R {
    var accumulator: R = initial
    for (element: T in this) {
        accumulator = combine(accumulator, element)
    }
    return accumulator
}
```

In the code above, the `combine` parameter has the [function type](#function-types) `(R, T) -> R`, so it accepts a function
that takes two arguments of types `R` and `T` and returns a value of type `R`.
It is [invoked](#invoking-a-function-type-instance) inside the `for` loop, and the return value is then assigned to `accumulator`.

To call `fold`, you need to pass an [instance of the function type](#instantiating-a-function-type) to it as an argument,
and lambda expressions ([described in more detail below](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions)) are widely used for
this purpose at higher-order function call sites:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val items = listOf(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    
    // Lambdas are code blocks enclosed in curly braces.
    items.fold(0, { 
        // When a lambda has parameters, they go first, followed by '->'
        acc: Int, i: Int -> 
        print("acc = $acc, i = $i, ") 
        val result = acc + i
        println("result = $result")
        // The last expression in a lambda is considered the return value:
        result
    })
    
    // Parameter types in a lambda are optional if they can be inferred:
    val joinedToString = items.fold("Elements:", { acc, i -> acc + " " + i })
    
    // Function references can also be used for higher-order function calls:
    val product = items.fold(1, Int::times)
    //sampleEnd
    println("joinedToString = $joinedToString")
    println("product = $product")
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

## Function types

Kotlin uses function types, such as `(Int) -> String`, for declarations that deal with functions: `val onClick: () -> Unit = ...`.

These types have a special notation that corresponds to the signatures of the functions - their parameters and return values:

* All function types have a parenthesized list of parameter types and a return type: `(A, B) -> C` denotes a type that
  represents functions that take two arguments of types `A` and `B` and return a value of type `C`.
  The list of parameter types may be empty, as in `() -> A`. The [`Unit` return type](functions.md#unit-returning-functions)
  cannot be omitted.

* Function types can optionally have an additional *receiver* type, which is specified before the dot in the notation:
  the type `A.(B) -> C` represents functions that can be called on a receiver object `A` with a parameter `B` and
  return a value `C`.
  [Function literals with receiver](#function-literals-with-receiver) are often used along with these types.

* [Suspending functions](coroutines-basics.md) belong to a special kind of function type that have
  a *suspend* modifier in their notation, such as `suspend () -> Unit` or `suspend A.(B) -> C`.

The function type notation can optionally include names for the function parameters: `(x: Int, y: Int) -> Point`.
These names can be used for documenting the meaning of the parameters.

To specify that a function type is [nullable](null-safety.md#nullable-types-and-non-nullable-types), use parentheses as follows:
`((Int, Int) -> Int)?`.

Function types can also be combined using parentheses: `(Int) -> ((Int) -> Unit)`.

> The arrow notation is right-associative, `(Int) -> (Int) -> Unit` is equivalent to the previous example, but not to `((Int) -> (Int)) -> Unit`.
>
{style="note"}

You can also give a function type an alternative name by using [a type alias](type-aliases.md):

```kotlin
typealias ClickHandler = (Button, ClickEvent) -> Unit
```

### Instantiating a function type

There are several ways to obtain an instance of a function type:

* Use a code block within a function literal, in one of the following forms:
    * a [lambda expression](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions): `{ a, b -> a + b }`,
    * an [anonymous function](#anonymous-functions): `fun(s: String): Int { return s.toIntOrNull() ?: 0 }`

  [Function literals with receiver](#function-literals-with-receiver) can be used as values of function types with receiver.

* Use a callable reference to an existing declaration:
    * a top-level, local, member, or extension [function](reflection.md#function-references): `::isOdd`, `String::toInt`,
    * a top-level, member, or extension [property](reflection.md#property-references): `List<Int>::size`,
    * a [constructor](reflection.md#constructor-references): `::Regex`

  These include [bound callable references](reflection.md#bound-function-and-property-references) that point to a member of a particular instance: `foo::toString`.

* Use instances of a custom class that implements a function type as an interface:

```kotlin
class IntTransformer: (Int) -> Int {
    override operator fun invoke(x: Int): Int = TODO()
}

val intFunction: (Int) -> Int = IntTransformer()
```

The compiler can infer the function types for variables if there is enough information:

```kotlin
val a = { i: Int -> i + 1 } // The inferred type is (Int) -> Int
```

*Non-literal* values of function types with and without a receiver are interchangeable, so the receiver can stand in for
the first parameter, and vice versa. For instance, a value of type `(A, B) -> C` can be passed or assigned where a value
of type `A.(B) -> C` is expected, and the other way around:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val repeatFun: String.(Int) -> String = { times -> this.repeat(times) }
    val twoParameters: (String, Int) -> String = repeatFun // OK
    
    fun runTransformation(f: (String, Int) -> String): String {
        return f("hello", 3)
    }
    val result = runTransformation(repeatFun) // OK
    //sampleEnd
    println("result = $result")
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

> A function type with no receiver is inferred by default, even if a variable is initialized with a reference
> to an extension function.
> To alter that, specify the variable type explicitly.
>
{style="note"}

### Invoking a function type instance

A value of a function type can be invoked by using its [`invoke(...)` operator](operator-overloading.md#invoke-operator):
`f.invoke(x)` or just `f(x)`.

If the value has a receiver type, the receiver object should be passed as the first argument.
Another way to invoke a value of a function type with receiver is to prepend it with the receiver object,
as if the value were an [extension function](extensions.md): `1.foo(2)`.

Example:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val stringPlus: (String, String) -> String = String::plus
    val intPlus: Int.(Int) -> Int = Int::plus
    
    println(stringPlus.invoke("<-", "->"))
    println(stringPlus("Hello, ", "world!"))
    
    println(intPlus.invoke(1, 1))
    println(intPlus(1, 2))
    println(2.intPlus(3)) // extension-like call
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

### Inline functions

Sometimes it is beneficial to use [inline functions](inline-functions.md), which provide flexible control flow, for higher-order functions.

## Lambda expressions and anonymous functions

Lambda expressions and anonymous functions are *function literals*. Function literals are functions that are not declared
but are passed immediately as an expression. Consider the following example:

```kotlin
max(strings, { a, b -> a.length < b.length })
```

The function `max` is a higher-order function, as it takes a function value as its second argument. This second argument
is an expression that is itself a function, called a function literal, which is equivalent to the following named function:

```kotlin
fun compare(a: String, b: String): Boolean = a.length < b.length
```

### Lambda expression syntax

The full syntactic form of lambda expressions is as follows:

```kotlin
val sum: (Int, Int) -> Int = { x: Int, y: Int -> x + y }
```

* A lambda expression is always surrounded by curly braces.
* Parameter declarations in the full syntactic form go inside curly braces and have optional type annotations.
* The body goes after the `->`.
* If the inferred return type of the lambda is not `Unit`, the last (or possibly single) expression inside the lambda body is treated as the return value.

If you leave all the optional annotations out, what's left looks like this:

```kotlin
val sum = { x: Int, y: Int -> x + y }
```

### Passing trailing lambdas

According to Kotlin convention, if the last parameter of a function is a function, then a lambda expression passed as the
corresponding argument can be placed outside the parentheses:

```kotlin
val product = items.fold(1) { acc, e -> acc * e }
```

Such syntax is also known as *trailing lambda*.

If the lambda is the only argument in that call, the parentheses can be omitted entirely:

```kotlin
run { println("...") }
```

### it: implicit name of a single parameter

It's very common for a lambda expression to have only one parameter.

If the compiler can parse the signature without any parameters, the parameter does not need to be declared and `->` can
be omitted. The parameter will be implicitly declared under the name `it`:

```kotlin
ints.filter { it > 0 } // this literal is of type '(it: Int) -> Boolean'
```

### Returning a value from a lambda expression

You can explicitly return a value from the lambda using the [qualified return](returns.md#return-to-labels) syntax.
Otherwise, the value of the last expression is implicitly returned.

Therefore, the two following snippets are equivalent:

```kotlin
ints.filter {
    val shouldFilter = it > 0
    shouldFilter
}

ints.filter {
    val shouldFilter = it > 0
    return@filter shouldFilter
}
```

This convention, along with [passing a lambda expression outside of parentheses](#passing-trailing-lambdas), allows for
[LINQ-style](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/linq/) code:

```kotlin
strings.filter { it.length == 5 }.sortedBy { it }.map { it.uppercase() }
```

### Underscore for unused variables

If the lambda parameter is unused, you can place an underscore instead of its name:

```kotlin
map.forEach { (_, value) -> println("$value!") }
```

### Destructuring in lambdas

Destructuring in lambdas is described as a part of [destructuring declarations](destructuring-declarations.md#destructuring-in-lambdas).

### Anonymous functions

The lambda expression syntax above is missing one thing – the ability to specify the function's return type. In most cases,
this is unnecessary because the return type can be inferred automatically. However, if you do need to specify it explicitly,
you can use an alternative syntax: an *anonymous function*.

```kotlin
fun(x: Int, y: Int): Int = x + y
```

An anonymous function looks very much like a regular function declaration, except its name is omitted. Its body can be
either an expression (as shown above) or a block:

```kotlin
fun(x: Int, y: Int): Int {
    return x + y
}
```

The parameters and the return type are specified in the same way as for regular functions, except the parameter types can
be omitted if they can be inferred from the context:

```kotlin
ints.filter(fun(item) = item > 0)
```

The return type inference for anonymous functions works just like for normal functions: the return type is inferred automatically
for anonymous functions with an expression body, but it has to be specified explicitly (or is assumed to be `Unit`) for anonymous
functions with a block body.

> When passing anonymous functions as parameters, place them inside the parentheses. The shorthand syntax that allows you to leave
> the function outside the parentheses works only for lambda expressions.
>
{style="note"}

Another difference between lambda expressions and anonymous functions is the behavior of [non-local returns](inline-functions.md#returns).
A `return`  statement without a label always returns from the function declared with the `fun` keyword. This means that
a `return` inside a lambda expression will return from the enclosing function, whereas a `return` inside an anonymous
function will return from the anonymous function itself.

### Closures

A lambda expression or anonymous function (as well as a [local function](functions.md#local-functions) and an [object expression](object-declarations.md#object-expressions))
can access its *closure*, which includes the variables declared in the outer scope. The variables captured in the closure
can be modified in the lambda:

```kotlin
var sum = 0
ints.filter { it > 0 }.forEach {
    sum += it
}
print(sum)
```

### Function literals with receiver

[Function types](#function-types) with receiver, such as `A.(B) -> C`, can be instantiated with a special form of function
literals – function literals with receiver.

As mentioned above, Kotlin provides the ability [to call an instance](#invoking-a-function-type-instance) of a function
type with receiver while providing the *receiver object*.

Inside the body of the function literal, the receiver object passed to a call becomes an *implicit* `this`, so that you
can access the members of that receiver object without any additional qualifiers, or access the receiver object using
a [`this` expression](this-expressions.md).

This behavior is similar to that of [extension functions](extensions.md), which also allow you to access the members of
the receiver object inside the function body.

Here is an example of a function literal with receiver along with its type, where `plus` is called on the receiver object:

```kotlin
val sum: Int.(Int) -> Int = { other -> plus(other) }
```

The anonymous function syntax allows you to specify the receiver type of a function literal directly.
This can be useful if you need to declare a variable of a function type with receiver, and then to use it later.

```kotlin
val sum = fun Int.(other: Int): Int = this + other
```

Lambda expressions can be used as function literals with receiver when the receiver type can be inferred from the context.
One of the most important examples of their usage is [type-safe builders](type-safe-builders.md):

```kotlin
class HTML {
    fun body() { ... }
}

fun html(init: HTML.() -> Unit): HTML {
    val html = HTML()  // create the receiver object
    html.init()        // pass the receiver object to the lambda
    return html
}

html {       // lambda with receiver begins here
    body()   // calling a method on the receiver object
}
```

Commit message:

small addition about suspending lambda expressions

docs/topics/lambdas.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Higher-order functions and lambdas)

Kotlin functions are [first-class](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-class_function), which means they can
be stored in variables and data structures, and can be passed as arguments to and returned from other
[higher-order functions](#higher-order-functions). You can perform any operations on functions that are possible for other
non-function values.

To facilitate this, Kotlin, as a statically typed programming language, uses a family of
[function types](#function-types) to represent functions, and provides a set of specialized language constructs, such as
[lambda expressions](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions).

## Higher-order functions

A higher-order function is a function that takes functions as parameters, or returns a function.

A good example of a higher-order function is the [functional programming idiom `fold`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fold_(higher-order_function))
for collections. It takes an initial accumulator value and a combining function and builds its return value by consecutively
combining the current accumulator value with each collection element, replacing the accumulator value each time:

```kotlin
fun <T, R> Collection<T>.fold(
    initial: R, 
    combine: (acc: R, nextElement: T) -> R
): R {
    var accumulator: R = initial
    for (element: T in this) {
        accumulator = combine(accumulator, element)
    }
    return accumulator
}
```

In the code above, the `combine` parameter has the [function type](#function-types) `(R, T) -> R`, so it accepts a function
that takes two arguments of types `R` and `T` and returns a value of type `R`.
It is [invoked](#invoking-a-function-type-instance) inside the `for` loop, and the return value is then assigned to `accumulator`.

To call `fold`, you need to pass an [instance of the function type](#instantiating-a-function-type) to it as an argument,
and lambda expressions ([described in more detail below](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions)) are widely used for
this purpose at higher-order function call sites:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val items = listOf(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
    
    // Lambdas are code blocks enclosed in curly braces.
    items.fold(0, { 
        // When a lambda has parameters, they go first, followed by '->'
        acc: Int, i: Int -> 
        print("acc = $acc, i = $i, ") 
        val result = acc + i
        println("result = $result")
        // The last expression in a lambda is considered the return value:
        result
    })
    
    // Parameter types in a lambda are optional if they can be inferred:
    val joinedToString = items.fold("Elements:", { acc, i -> acc + " " + i })
    
    // Function references can also be used for higher-order function calls:
    val product = items.fold(1, Int::times)
    //sampleEnd
    println("joinedToString = $joinedToString")
    println("product = $product")
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

## Function types

Kotlin uses function types, such as `(Int) -> String`, for declarations that deal with functions: `val onClick: () -> Unit = ...`.

These types have a special notation that corresponds to the signatures of the functions - their parameters and return values:

* All function types have a parenthesized list of parameter types and a return type: `(A, B) -> C` denotes a type that
  represents functions that take two arguments of types `A` and `B` and return a value of type `C`.
  The list of parameter types may be empty, as in `() -> A`. The [`Unit` return type](functions.md#unit-returning-functions)
  cannot be omitted.

* Function types can optionally have an additional *receiver* type, which is specified before the dot in the notation:
  the type `A.(B) -> C` represents functions that can be called on a receiver object `A` with a parameter `B` and
  return a value `C`.
  [Function literals with receiver](#function-literals-with-receiver) are often used along with these types.

* [Suspending functions](coroutines-basics.md) belong to a special kind of function type that have
  a *suspend* modifier in their notation, such as `suspend () -> Unit` or `suspend A.(B) -> C`.

The function type notation can optionally include names for the function parameters: `(x: Int, y: Int) -> Point`.
These names can be used for documenting the meaning of the parameters.

To specify that a function type is [nullable](null-safety.md#nullable-types-and-non-nullable-types), use parentheses as follows:
`((Int, Int) -> Int)?`.

Function types can also be combined using parentheses: `(Int) -> ((Int) -> Unit)`.

> The arrow notation is right-associative, `(Int) -> (Int) -> Unit` is equivalent to the previous example, but not to `((Int) -> (Int)) -> Unit`.
>
{style="note"}

You can also give a function type an alternative name by using [a type alias](type-aliases.md):

```kotlin
typealias ClickHandler = (Button, ClickEvent) -> Unit
```

### Instantiating a function type

There are several ways to obtain an instance of a function type:

* Use a code block within a function literal, in one of the following forms:
    * a [lambda expression](#lambda-expressions-and-anonymous-functions): `{ a, b -> a + b }`,
    * an [anonymous function](#anonymous-functions): `fun(s: String): Int { return s.toIntOrNull() ?: 0 }`

  [Function literals with receiver](#function-literals-with-receiver) can be used as values of function types with receiver.

* Use a callable reference to an existing declaration:
    * a top-level, local, member, or extension [function](reflection.md#function-references): `::isOdd`, `String::toInt`,
    * a top-level, member, or extension [property](reflection.md#property-references): `List<Int>::size`,
    * a [constructor](reflection.md#constructor-references): `::Regex`

  These include [bound callable references](reflection.md#bound-function-and-property-references) that point to a member of a particular instance: `foo::toString`.

* Use instances of a custom class that implements a function type as an interface:

```kotlin
class IntTransformer: (Int) -> Int {
    override operator fun invoke(x: Int): Int = TODO()
}

val intFunction: (Int) -> Int = IntTransformer()
```

The compiler can infer the function types for variables if there is enough information:

```kotlin
val a = { i: Int -> i + 1 } // The inferred type is (Int) -> Int
```

*Non-literal* values of function types with and without a receiver are interchangeable, so the receiver can stand in for
the first parameter, and vice versa. For instance, a value of type `(A, B) -> C` can be passed or assigned where a value
of type `A.(B) -> C` is expected, and the other way around:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val repeatFun: String.(Int) -> String = { times -> this.repeat(times) }
    val twoParameters: (String, Int) -> String = repeatFun // OK
    
    fun runTransformation(f: (String, Int) -> String): String {
        return f("hello", 3)
    }
    val result = runTransformation(repeatFun) // OK
    //sampleEnd
    println("result = $result")
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

> A function type with no receiver is inferred by default, even if a variable is initialized with a reference
> to an extension function.
> To alter that, specify the variable type explicitly.
>
{style="note"}

### Invoking a function type instance

A value of a function type can be invoked by using its [`invoke(...)` operator](operator-overloading.md#invoke-operator):
`f.invoke(x)` or just `f(x)`.

If the value has a receiver type, the receiver object should be passed as the first argument.
Another way to invoke a value of a function type with receiver is to prepend it with the receiver object,
as if the value were an [extension function](extensions.md): `1.foo(2)`.

Example:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val stringPlus: (String, String) -> String = String::plus
    val intPlus: Int.(Int) -> Int = Int::plus
    
    println(stringPlus.invoke("<-", "->"))
    println(stringPlus("Hello, ", "world!"))
    
    println(intPlus.invoke(1, 1))
    println(intPlus(1, 2))
    println(2.intPlus(3)) // extension-like call
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true"}

### Inline functions

Sometimes it is beneficial to use [inline functions](inline-functions.md), which provide flexible control flow, for higher-order functions.

## Lambda expressions and anonymous functions

Lambda expressions and anonymous functions are *function literals*. Function literals are functions that are not declared
but are passed immediately as an expression. Consider the following example:

```kotlin
max(strings, { a, b -> a.length < b.length })
```

The function `max` is a higher-order function, as it takes a function value as its second argument. This second argument
is an expression that is itself a function, called a function literal, which is equivalent to the following named function:

```kotlin
fun compare(a: String, b: String): Boolean = a.length < b.length
```

You can also create a _suspending lambda expression_ using the `suspend` keyword.
A suspending lambda has the function type `suspend () -> Unit` and can call other suspending functions:

```kotlin
val suspendingTask = suspend { doSuspendingWork() }
```

### Lambda expression syntax

The full syntactic form of lambda expressions is as follows:

```kotlin
val sum: (Int, Int) -> Int = { x: Int, y: Int -> x + y }
```

* A lambda expression is always surrounded by curly braces.
* Parameter declarations in the full syntactic form go inside curly braces and have optional type annotations.
* The body goes after the `->`.
* If the inferred return type of the lambda is not `Unit`, the last (or possibly single) expression inside the lambda body is treated as the return value.

If you leave all the optional annotations out, what's left looks like this:

```kotlin
val sum = { x: Int, y: Int -> x + y }
```

### Passing trailing lambdas

According to Kotlin convention, if the last parameter of a function is a function, then a lambda expression passed as the
corresponding argument can be placed outside the parentheses:

```kotlin
val product = items.fold(1) { acc, e -> acc * e }
```

Such syntax is also known as *trailing lambda*.

If the lambda is the only argument in that call, the parentheses can be omitted entirely:

```kotlin
run { println("...") }
```

### it: implicit name of a single parameter

It's very common for a lambda expression to have only one parameter.

If the compiler can parse the signature without any parameters, the parameter does not need to be declared and `->` can
be omitted. The parameter will be implicitly declared under the name `it`:

```kotlin
ints.filter { it > 0 } // this literal is of type '(it: Int) -> Boolean'
```

### Returning a value from a lambda expression

You can explicitly return a value from the lambda using the [qualified return](returns.md#return-to-labels) syntax.
Otherwise, the value of the last expression is implicitly returned.

Therefore, the two following snippets are equivalent:

```kotlin
ints.filter {
    val shouldFilter = it > 0
    shouldFilter
}

ints.filter {
    val shouldFilter = it > 0
    return@filter shouldFilter
}
```

This convention, along with [passing a lambda expression outside of parentheses](#passing-trailing-lambdas), allows for
[LINQ-style](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/linq/) code:

```kotlin
strings.filter { it.length == 5 }.sortedBy { it }.map { it.uppercase() }
```

### Underscore for unused variables

If the lambda parameter is unused, you can place an underscore instead of its name:

```kotlin
map.forEach { (_, value) -> println("$value!") }
```

### Destructuring in lambdas

Destructuring in lambdas is described as a part of [destructuring declarations](destructuring-declarations.md#destructuring-in-lambdas).

### Anonymous functions

The lambda expression syntax above is missing one thing – the ability to specify the function's return type. In most cases,
this is unnecessary because the return type can be inferred automatically. However, if you do need to specify it explicitly,
you can use an alternative syntax: an *anonymous function*.

```kotlin
fun(x: Int, y: Int): Int = x + y
```

An anonymous function looks very much like a regular function declaration, except its name is omitted. Its body can be
either an expression (as shown above) or a block:

```kotlin
fun(x: Int, y: Int): Int {
    return x + y
}
```

The parameters and the return type are specified in the same way as for regular functions, except the parameter types can
be omitted if they can be inferred from the context:

```kotlin
ints.filter(fun(item) = item > 0)
```

The return type inference for anonymous functions works just like for normal functions: the return type is inferred automatically
for anonymous functions with an expression body, but it has to be specified explicitly (or is assumed to be `Unit`) for anonymous
functions with a block body.

> When passing anonymous functions as parameters, place them inside the parentheses. The shorthand syntax that allows you to leave
> the function outside the parentheses works only for lambda expressions.
>
{style="note"}

Another difference between lambda expressions and anonymous functions is the behavior of [non-local returns](inline-functions.md#returns).
A `return`  statement without a label always returns from the function declared with the `fun` keyword. This means that
a `return` inside a lambda expression will return from the enclosing function, whereas a `return` inside an anonymous
function will return from the anonymous function itself.

### Closures

A lambda expression or anonymous function (as well as a [local function](functions.md#local-functions) and an [object expression](object-declarations.md#object-expressions))
can access its *closure*, which includes the variables declared in the outer scope. The variables captured in the closure
can be modified in the lambda:

```kotlin
var sum = 0
ints.filter { it > 0 }.forEach {
    sum += it
}
print(sum)
```

### Function literals with receiver

[Function types](#function-types) with receiver, such as `A.(B) -> C`, can be instantiated with a special form of function
literals – function literals with receiver.

As mentioned above, Kotlin provides the ability [to call an instance](#invoking-a-function-type-instance) of a function
type with receiver while providing the *receiver object*.

Inside the body of the function literal, the receiver object passed to a call becomes an *implicit* `this`, so that you
can access the members of that receiver object without any additional qualifiers, or access the receiver object using
a [`this` expression](this-expressions.md).

This behavior is similar to that of [extension functions](extensions.md), which also allow you to access the members of
the receiver object inside the function body.

Here is an example of a function literal with receiver along with its type, where `plus` is called on the receiver object:

```kotlin
val sum: Int.(Int) -> Int = { other -> plus(other) }
```

The anonymous function syntax allows you to specify the receiver type of a function literal directly.
This can be useful if you need to declare a variable of a function type with receiver, and then to use it later.

```kotlin
val sum = fun Int.(other: Int): Int = this + other
```

Lambda expressions can be used as function literals with receiver when the receiver type can be inferred from the context.
One of the most important examples of their usage is [type-safe builders](type-safe-builders.md):

```kotlin
class HTML {
    fun body() { ... }
}

fun html(init: HTML.() -> Unit): HTML {
    val html = HTML()  // create the receiver object
    html.init()        // pass the receiver object to the lambda
    return html
}

html {       // lambda with receiver begins here
    body()   // calling a method on the receiver object
}
```
