docs/topics/maven.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Maven)

Maven is a build system that you can use to build and manage any Java-based project.

## Configure and enable the plugin

The `kotlin-maven-plugin` compiles Kotlin sources and modules. Currently, only Maven v3 is supported.

In your `pom.xml` file, define the version of Kotlin you want to use in the `kotlin.version` property:

```xml
<properties>
    <kotlin.version>%kotlinVersion%</kotlin.version>
</properties>
```

To enable `kotlin-maven-plugin`, update your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<plugins>
    <plugin>
        <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
        <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
    </plugin>
</plugins>
```

### Use JDK 17

To use JDK 17, in your `.mvn/jvm.config` file, add:

```none
--add-opens=java.base/java.lang=ALL-UNNAMED
--add-opens=java.base/java.io=ALL-UNNAMED
```

## Declare repositories

By default, the `mavenCentral` repository is available for all Maven projects. To access artifacts in other repositories,
specify the ID and URL of each repository in the `<repositories>` element:

```xml
<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>spring-repo</id>
        <url>https://repo.spring.io/release</url>
    </repository>
</repositories>
```

> If you declare `mavenLocal()` as a repository in a Gradle project, you may experience problems when switching 
> between Gradle and Maven projects. For more information, see [Declare repositories](gradle-configure-project.md#declare-repositories).
>
{style="note"}

## Set dependencies

Kotlin has an extensive standard library that can be used in your applications.
To use the standard library in your project, add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
        <artifactId>kotlin-stdlib</artifactId>
        <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

> If you're targeting JDK 7 or 8 with Kotlin versions older than:
> * 1.8, use `kotlin-stdlib-jdk7` or `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8`, respectively.
> * 1.2, use `kotlin-stdlib-jre7` or `kotlin-stdlib-jre8`, respectively.
>
{style="note"} 

If your project uses [Kotlin reflection](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.reflect.full/index.html)
or testing facilities, you need to add the corresponding dependencies as well.
The artifact IDs are `kotlin-reflect` for the reflection library, and `kotlin-test` and `kotlin-test-junit`
for the testing libraries.

## Compile Kotlin-only source code

To compile source code, specify the source directories in the `<build>` tag:

```xml
<build>
    <sourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/main/kotlin</sourceDirectory>
    <testSourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/test/kotlin</testSourceDirectory>
</build>
```

The Kotlin Maven Plugin needs to be referenced to compile the sources:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${kotlin.version}</version>

            <executions>
                <execution>
                    <id>compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>

                <execution>
                    <id>test-compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>test-compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, you can replace the whole `<executions>` element above with `<extensions>true</extensions>`. 
Enabling extensions automatically adds the `compile`, `test-compile`, `kapt`, and `test-kapt` executions to your build, 
bound to their appropriate [lifecycle phases](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html). 
If you need to configure an execution, you need to specify its ID. You can find an example of this in the next section.

> If several build plugins overwrite the default lifecycle and you have also enabled the `extensions` option, the last plugin in 
> the `<build>` section has priority in terms of lifecycle settings. All earlier changes to lifecycle settings are ignored.
> 
{style="note"}

<!-- The following header is used in the Mari link service. If you wish to change it here, change the link there too -->

## Compile Kotlin and Java sources

To compile projects that include Kotlin and Java source code, invoke the Kotlin compiler before the Java compiler.
In Maven terms it means that `kotlin-maven-plugin` should be run before `maven-compiler-plugin` using the following method,
making sure that the `kotlin` plugin comes before the `maven-compiler-plugin` in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
            <extensions>true</extensions> <!-- You can set this option 
            to automatically take information about lifecycles -->
            <executions>
                <execution>
                    <id>compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal> <!-- You can skip the <goals> element 
                        if you enable extensions for the plugin -->
                    </goals>
                    <configuration>
                        <sourceDirs>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/main/kotlin</sourceDir>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/main/java</sourceDir>
                        </sourceDirs>
                    </configuration>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>test-compile</id>
                    <goals> 
                        <goal>test-compile</goal> <!-- You can skip the <goals> element 
                    if you enable extensions for the plugin -->
                    </goals>
                    <configuration>
                        <sourceDirs>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/test/kotlin</sourceDir>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/test/java</sourceDir>
                        </sourceDirs>
                    </configuration>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.5.1</version>
            <executions>
                <!-- Replacing default-compile as it is treated specially by Maven -->
                <execution>
                    <id>default-compile</id>
                    <phase>none</phase>
                </execution>
                <!-- Replacing default-testCompile as it is treated specially by Maven -->
                <execution>
                    <id>default-testCompile</id>
                    <phase>none</phase>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>java-compile</id>
                    <phase>compile</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>java-test-compile</id>
                    <phase>test-compile</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>testCompile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

## Enable incremental compilation

To make your builds faster, you can enable incremental compilation by adding the `kotlin.compiler.incremental` property:

```xml
<properties>
    <kotlin.compiler.incremental>true</kotlin.compiler.incremental>
</properties>
```

Alternatively, run your build with the `-Dkotlin.compiler.incremental=true` option.

## Configure annotation processing

See [`kapt` – Using in Maven](kapt.md#use-in-maven).

## Create JAR file

To create a small JAR file containing just the code from your module, include the following under `build->plugins`
in your Maven `pom.xml` file, where `main.class` is defined as a property and points to the main Kotlin or Java class:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-jar-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>2.6</version>
    <configuration>
        <archive>
            <manifest>
                <addClasspath>true</addClasspath>
                <mainClass>${main.class}</mainClass>
            </manifest>
        </archive>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

## Create a self-contained JAR file

To create a self-contained JAR file containing the code from your module along with its dependencies, include the following
under `build->plugins` in your Maven `pom.xml` file, where `main.class` is defined as a property and points to
the main Kotlin or Java class:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-assembly-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>2.6</version>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <id>make-assembly</id>
            <phase>package</phase>
            <goals> <goal>single</goal> </goals>
            <configuration>
                <archive>
                    <manifest>
                        <mainClass>${main.class}</mainClass>
                    </manifest>
                </archive>
                <descriptorRefs>
                    <descriptorRef>jar-with-dependencies</descriptorRef>
                </descriptorRefs>
            </configuration>
        </execution>
    </executions>
</plugin>
```

This self-contained JAR file can be passed directly to a JRE to run your application:

``` bash
java -jar target/mymodule-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

## Specify compiler options

Additional options and arguments for the compiler can be specified as tags under the `<configuration>` element of the
Maven plugin node:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
    <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
    <extensions>true</extensions> <!-- If you want to enable automatic addition of executions to your build -->
    <executions>...</executions>
    <configuration>
        <nowarn>true</nowarn>  <!-- Disable warnings -->
        <args>
            <arg>-Xjsr305=strict</arg> <!-- Enable strict mode for JSR-305 annotations -->
            ...
        </args>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

Many of the options can also be configured through properties:

```xml
<project ...>
    <properties>
        <kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>%languageVersion%</kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>
    </properties>
</project>
```

The following attributes are supported:

### Attributes specific to JVM

| Name              | Property name                   | Description                                                                                          | Possible values                                  | Default value               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `nowarn`          |                                 | Generate no warnings                                                                                 | true, false                                      | false                       |
| `languageVersion` | kotlin.compiler.languageVersion | Provide source compatibility with the specified version of Kotlin                                    | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |                             |
| `apiVersion`      | kotlin.compiler.apiVersion      | Allow using declarations only from the specified version of bundled libraries                        | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |                             |
| `sourceDirs`      |                                 | The directories containing the source files to compile                                               |                                                  | The project source roots    |
| `compilerPlugins` |                                 | Enabled compiler plugins                                                                             |                                                  | []                          |
| `pluginOptions`   |                                 | Options for compiler plugins                                                                         |                                                  | []                          |
| `args`            |                                 | Additional compiler arguments                                                                        |                                                  | []                          |
| `jvmTarget`       | `kotlin.compiler.jvmTarget`     | Target version of the generated JVM bytecode                                                         | "1.8", "9", "10", ..., "24"                      | "%defaultJvmTargetVersion%" |
| `jdkHome`         | `kotlin.compiler.jdkHome`       | Include a custom JDK from the specified location into the classpath instead of the default JAVA_HOME |                                                  |                             |

## Use BOM

To use a Kotlin [Bill of Materials (BOM)](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#bill-of-materials-bom-poms), 
write a dependency on [`kotlin-bom`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-bom):

```xml
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>  
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-bom</artifactId>
            <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

## Generate documentation

The standard Javadoc generation plugin (`maven-javadoc-plugin`) doesn't support Kotlin code. To generate documentation 
for Kotlin projects, use [Dokka](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka). Dokka supports mixed-language projects and can 
generate output in multiple formats, including standard Javadoc. For more information about how to configure Dokka in
your Maven project, see [Maven](dokka-maven.md).

## Enable OSGi support

[Learn how to enable OSGi support in your Maven project](kotlin-osgi.md#maven).

Commit message:

update: add compiler execution strategies for maven

docs/topics/maven.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Maven)

Maven is a build system that you can use to build and manage any Java-based project.

## Configure and enable the plugin

The `kotlin-maven-plugin` compiles Kotlin sources and modules. Currently, only Maven v3 is supported.

In your `pom.xml` file, define the version of Kotlin you want to use in the `kotlin.version` property:

```xml
<properties>
    <kotlin.version>%kotlinVersion%</kotlin.version>
</properties>
```

To enable `kotlin-maven-plugin`, update your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<plugins>
    <plugin>
        <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
        <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
    </plugin>
</plugins>
```

### Use JDK 17

To use JDK 17, in your `.mvn/jvm.config` file, add:

```none
--add-opens=java.base/java.lang=ALL-UNNAMED
--add-opens=java.base/java.io=ALL-UNNAMED
```

## Declare repositories

By default, the `mavenCentral` repository is available for all Maven projects. To access artifacts in other repositories,
specify the ID and URL of each repository in the `<repositories>` element:

```xml
<repositories>
    <repository>
        <id>spring-repo</id>
        <url>https://repo.spring.io/release</url>
    </repository>
</repositories>
```

> If you declare `mavenLocal()` as a repository in a Gradle project, you may experience problems when switching 
> between Gradle and Maven projects. For more information, see [Declare repositories](gradle-configure-project.md#declare-repositories).
>
{style="note"}

## Set dependencies

Kotlin has an extensive standard library that can be used in your applications.
To use the standard library in your project, add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
        <artifactId>kotlin-stdlib</artifactId>
        <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

> If you're targeting JDK 7 or 8 with Kotlin versions older than:
> * 1.8, use `kotlin-stdlib-jdk7` or `kotlin-stdlib-jdk8`, respectively.
> * 1.2, use `kotlin-stdlib-jre7` or `kotlin-stdlib-jre8`, respectively.
>
{style="note"} 

If your project uses [Kotlin reflection](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.reflect.full/index.html)
or testing facilities, you need to add the corresponding dependencies as well.
The artifact IDs are `kotlin-reflect` for the reflection library, and `kotlin-test` and `kotlin-test-junit`
for the testing libraries.

## Compile Kotlin-only source code

To compile source code, specify the source directories in the `<build>` tag:

```xml
<build>
    <sourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/main/kotlin</sourceDirectory>
    <testSourceDirectory>${project.basedir}/src/test/kotlin</testSourceDirectory>
</build>
```

The Kotlin Maven Plugin needs to be referenced to compile the sources:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${kotlin.version}</version>

            <executions>
                <execution>
                    <id>compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>

                <execution>
                    <id>test-compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>test-compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, you can replace the whole `<executions>` element above with `<extensions>true</extensions>`. 
Enabling extensions automatically adds the `compile`, `test-compile`, `kapt`, and `test-kapt` executions to your build, 
bound to their appropriate [lifecycle phases](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html). 
If you need to configure an execution, you need to specify its ID. You can find an example of this in the next section.

> If several build plugins overwrite the default lifecycle and you have also enabled the `extensions` option, the last plugin in 
> the `<build>` section has priority in terms of lifecycle settings. All earlier changes to lifecycle settings are ignored.
> 
{style="note"}

<!-- The following header is used in the Mari link service. If you wish to change it here, change the link there too -->

## Compile Kotlin and Java sources

To compile projects that include Kotlin and Java source code, invoke the Kotlin compiler before the Java compiler.
In Maven terms it means that `kotlin-maven-plugin` should be run before `maven-compiler-plugin` using the following method,
making sure that the `kotlin` plugin comes before the `maven-compiler-plugin` in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
            <extensions>true</extensions> <!-- You can set this option 
            to automatically take information about lifecycles -->
            <executions>
                <execution>
                    <id>compile</id>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal> <!-- You can skip the <goals> element 
                        if you enable extensions for the plugin -->
                    </goals>
                    <configuration>
                        <sourceDirs>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/main/kotlin</sourceDir>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/main/java</sourceDir>
                        </sourceDirs>
                    </configuration>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>test-compile</id>
                    <goals> 
                        <goal>test-compile</goal> <!-- You can skip the <goals> element 
                    if you enable extensions for the plugin -->
                    </goals>
                    <configuration>
                        <sourceDirs>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/test/kotlin</sourceDir>
                            <sourceDir>${project.basedir}/src/test/java</sourceDir>
                        </sourceDirs>
                    </configuration>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.5.1</version>
            <executions>
                <!-- Replacing default-compile as it is treated specially by Maven -->
                <execution>
                    <id>default-compile</id>
                    <phase>none</phase>
                </execution>
                <!-- Replacing default-testCompile as it is treated specially by Maven -->
                <execution>
                    <id>default-testCompile</id>
                    <phase>none</phase>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>java-compile</id>
                    <phase>compile</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>compile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
                <execution>
                    <id>java-test-compile</id>
                    <phase>test-compile</phase>
                    <goals>
                        <goal>testCompile</goal>
                    </goals>
                </execution>
            </executions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

## Configure Kotlin compiler execution strategy

The _Kotlin compiler execution strategy_ defines where the Kotlin compiler runs. There are two available strategies:

| Strategy                | Where the Kotlin compiler is executed |
|-------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Kotlin daemon (default) | Inside its own daemon process         |
| In process              | Inside the Maven process              |

By default, the Kotlin daemon is used. You can switch to the "in process" strategy by setting the following
property in your `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<properties>
    <kotlin.compiler.daemon>false</kotlin.compiler.daemon>
</properties>
```

Regardless of the compiler execution strategy that you use, you still need to explicitly configure incremental compilation.

## Enable incremental compilation

To make your builds faster, you can enable incremental compilation by adding the `kotlin.compiler.incremental` property:

```xml
<properties>
    <kotlin.compiler.incremental>true</kotlin.compiler.incremental>
</properties>
```

Alternatively, run your build with the `-Dkotlin.compiler.incremental=true` option.

## Configure annotation processing

See [`kapt` – Using in Maven](kapt.md#use-in-maven).

## Create JAR file

To create a small JAR file containing just the code from your module, include the following under `build->plugins`
in your Maven `pom.xml` file, where `main.class` is defined as a property and points to the main Kotlin or Java class:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-jar-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>2.6</version>
    <configuration>
        <archive>
            <manifest>
                <addClasspath>true</addClasspath>
                <mainClass>${main.class}</mainClass>
            </manifest>
        </archive>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

## Create a self-contained JAR file

To create a self-contained JAR file containing the code from your module along with its dependencies, include the following
under `build->plugins` in your Maven `pom.xml` file, where `main.class` is defined as a property and points to
the main Kotlin or Java class:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-assembly-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>2.6</version>
    <executions>
        <execution>
            <id>make-assembly</id>
            <phase>package</phase>
            <goals> <goal>single</goal> </goals>
            <configuration>
                <archive>
                    <manifest>
                        <mainClass>${main.class}</mainClass>
                    </manifest>
                </archive>
                <descriptorRefs>
                    <descriptorRef>jar-with-dependencies</descriptorRef>
                </descriptorRefs>
            </configuration>
        </execution>
    </executions>
</plugin>
```

This self-contained JAR file can be passed directly to a JRE to run your application:

``` bash
java -jar target/mymodule-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

## Specify compiler options

Additional options and arguments for the compiler can be specified as tags under the `<configuration>` element of the
Maven plugin node:

```xml
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
    <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
    <extensions>true</extensions> <!-- If you want to enable automatic addition of executions to your build -->
    <executions>...</executions>
    <configuration>
        <nowarn>true</nowarn>  <!-- Disable warnings -->
        <args>
            <arg>-Xjsr305=strict</arg> <!-- Enable strict mode for JSR-305 annotations -->
            ...
        </args>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
```

Many of the options can also be configured through properties:

```xml
<project ...>
    <properties>
        <kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>%languageVersion%</kotlin.compiler.languageVersion>
    </properties>
</project>
```

The following attributes are supported:

### Attributes specific to JVM

| Name              | Property name                   | Description                                                                                          | Possible values                                  | Default value               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `nowarn`          |                                 | Generate no warnings                                                                                 | true, false                                      | false                       |
| `languageVersion` | kotlin.compiler.languageVersion | Provide source compatibility with the specified version of Kotlin                                    | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |                             |
| `apiVersion`      | kotlin.compiler.apiVersion      | Allow using declarations only from the specified version of bundled libraries                        | "1.8", "1.9", "2.0", "2.1", "2.2" (EXPERIMENTAL) |                             |
| `sourceDirs`      |                                 | The directories containing the source files to compile                                               |                                                  | The project source roots    |
| `compilerPlugins` |                                 | Enabled compiler plugins                                                                             |                                                  | []                          |
| `pluginOptions`   |                                 | Options for compiler plugins                                                                         |                                                  | []                          |
| `args`            |                                 | Additional compiler arguments                                                                        |                                                  | []                          |
| `jvmTarget`       | `kotlin.compiler.jvmTarget`     | Target version of the generated JVM bytecode                                                         | "1.8", "9", "10", ..., "24"                      | "%defaultJvmTargetVersion%" |
| `jdkHome`         | `kotlin.compiler.jdkHome`       | Include a custom JDK from the specified location into the classpath instead of the default JAVA_HOME |                                                  |                             |

## Use BOM

To use a Kotlin [Bill of Materials (BOM)](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#bill-of-materials-bom-poms), 
write a dependency on [`kotlin-bom`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-bom):

```xml
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>  
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-bom</artifactId>
            <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

## Generate documentation

The standard Javadoc generation plugin (`maven-javadoc-plugin`) doesn't support Kotlin code. To generate documentation 
for Kotlin projects, use [Dokka](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka). Dokka supports mixed-language projects and can 
generate output in multiple formats, including standard Javadoc. For more information about how to configure Dokka in
your Maven project, see [Maven](dokka-maven.md).

## Enable OSGi support

[Learn how to enable OSGi support in your Maven project](kotlin-osgi.md#maven).
