docs/topics/metadata-jvm.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Kotlin Metadata JVM library)

<primary-label ref="advanced"/>

The [`kotlin-metadata-jvm`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/tree/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm) library provides tools to read, modify, and generate metadata from Kotlin classes compiled for the JVM.
This metadata, stored in the [`@Metadata`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-metadata/) annotation within `.class` files,
is used by libraries and tools such as [`kotlin-reflect`](reflection.md) to inspect Kotlin-specific constructs such as properties, functions,
and classes at runtime.

> The `kotlin-reflect` library relies on metadata to retrieve Kotlin-specific class details at runtime.
> Any inconsistencies between the metadata and the actual `.class` file may lead to incorrect behavior when using reflection.
> 
{style="warning"}

You can also use the Kotlin Metadata JVM library to inspect various declaration attributes such as visibility or modality, or to generate and embed metadata into `.class` files.

## Add the library to your project

To include the Kotlin Metadata JVM library in your project, add the corresponding dependency configuration based on your build tool.

> The Kotlin Metadata JVM library follows the same versioning as the Kotlin compiler and standard library.
> Ensure that the version you use matches your project's Kotlin version.
> 
{style="note"}

### Gradle

Add the following dependency to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file:

<tabs group="build-tool">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-metadata-jvm:%kotlinVersion%")
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
// build.gradle
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-metadata-jvm:%kotlinVersion%'
}
```
</tab>
</tabs>

### Maven

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file.

```xml
<project>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-metadata-jvm</artifactId>
            <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
    ...
</project>
```


## Read and parse metadata

The `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library extracts structured information from compiled Kotlin `.class` files, such as class names, visibility, and signatures.
You can use it in projects that need to analyze compiled Kotlin declarations.
For example, the [Binary Compatibility Validator (BCV)](https://github.com/Kotlin/binary-compatibility-validator) relies on `kotlin-metadata-jvm` to print public API declarations.

You can start exploring Kotlin class metadata by retrieving the `@Metadata` annotation from a compiled class using reflection:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified name of the class
    val clazz = Class.forName("org.example.SampleClass")

    // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
    val metadata = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)

    // Checks if the metadata is present
    if (metadata != null) {
        println("This is a Kotlin class with metadata.")
    } else {
        println("This is not a Kotlin class.")
    }
}
```

After retrieving the `@Metadata` annotation, use either the [`readLenient()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/read-lenient.html) or the [`readStrict()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/read-strict.html) function from the [`KotlinClassMetadata`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/) API to parse it.
These functions extract detailed information about classes or files, while addressing different compatibility requirements:

* `readLenient()`: Use this function to read metadata, including metadata generated by newer Kotlin compiler versions. This function doesn't support modifying or writing metadata.
* `readStrict()`: Use this function when you need to modify and write metadata. The `readStrict()` function only works with metadata generated by Kotlin compiler versions fully supported by your project.

    > The `readStrict()` function supports metadata formats up to one version beyond [`JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-jvm-metadata-version/-companion/-l-a-t-e-s-t_-s-t-a-b-l-e_-s-u-p-p-o-r-t-e-d.html), which corresponds to the latest Kotlin version used in the project.
    > For example, if your project depends on `kotlin-metadata-jvm:2.1.0`, `readStrict()` can process metadata up to Kotlin `2.2.x`; otherwise, it throws an error to prevent mishandling unknown formats.
    > 
    > For more information, see the [Kotlin Metadata GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/ReadMe.md#detailed-explanation). 
    >
    {style="note"}

When parsing metadata, the `KotlinClassMetadata` instance provides structured information about class or file-level declarations.
For classes, use the [`kmClass`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-class/km-class.html) property to analyze detailed class-level metadata, such as the class name, functions, properties, and attributes like visibility.
For file-level declarations, the metadata is represented by the `kmPackage` property, which includes top-level functions
and properties from file facades generated by the Kotlin compiler.

The following code example demonstrates how to use `readLenient()` to parse metadata, analyze class-level details with `kmClass`, and retrieve file-level declarations with `kmPackage`:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*

fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified class name
    val className = "org.example.SampleClass"

    try {
        // Retrieves the class object for the specified name
        val clazz = Class.forName(className)

        // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
        val metadataAnnotation = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)
        if (metadataAnnotation != null) {
            println("Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")

            // Parses metadata using the readLenient() function
            val metadata = KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient(metadataAnnotation)
            when (metadata) {
                is KotlinClassMetadata.Class -> {
                    val kmClass = metadata.kmClass
                    println("Class name: ${kmClass.name}")

                    // Iterates over functions and checks visibility
                    kmClass.functions.forEach { function ->
                        val visibility = function.visibility
                        println("Function: ${function.name}, Visibility: $visibility")
                    }
                }
                is KotlinClassMetadata.FileFacade -> {
                    val kmPackage = metadata.kmPackage

                    // Iterates over functions and checks visibility
                    kmPackage.functions.forEach { function ->
                        val visibility = function.visibility
                        println("Function: ${function.name}, Visibility: $visibility")
                    }
                }
                else -> {
                    println("Unsupported metadata type: $metadata")
                }
            }
        } else {
            println("No Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")
        }
    } catch (e: ClassNotFoundException) {
        println("Class not found: $className")
    } catch (e: Exception) {
        println("Error processing metadata: ${e.message}")
        e.printStackTrace()
    }
}
```

### Extract metadata from bytecode

While you can retrieve metadata using reflection, another approach is to extract it from bytecode using a bytecode manipulation framework such as [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/).

You can do this by following these steps:

1. Read the bytecode of a `.class` file using the ASM library's `ClassReader` class.
   This class processes the compiled file and populates a `ClassNode` object, which represents the class structure.
2. Extract the `@Metadata` from the `ClassNode` object. The example below uses a custom extension function `findAnnotation()` for this.
3. Parse the extracted metadata using the `KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient()` function.
4. Inspect the parsed metadata with the `kmClass` and `kmPackage` properties.

Here's an example:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*
import org.objectweb.asm.*
import org.objectweb.asm.tree.*
import java.io.File

// Checks if an annotation refers to a specific name
fun AnnotationNode.refersToName(name: String) =
    desc.startsWith('L') && desc.endsWith(';') && desc.regionMatches(1, name, 0, name.length)

// Retrieves annotation values by key
private fun List<Any>.annotationValue(key: String): Any? {
    for (index in (0 until size / 2)) {
        if (this[index * 2] == key) {
            return this[index * 2 + 1]
        }
    }
    return null
}

// Defines a custom extension function to locate an annotation by its name in a ClassNode
fun ClassNode.findAnnotation(annotationName: String, includeInvisible: Boolean = false): AnnotationNode? {
    val visible = visibleAnnotations?.firstOrNull { it.refersToName(annotationName) }
    if (!includeInvisible) return visible
    return visible ?: invisibleAnnotations?.firstOrNull { it.refersToName(annotationName) }
}

// Operator to simplify retrieving annotation values
operator fun AnnotationNode.get(key: String): Any? = values.annotationValue(key)

// Extracts Kotlin metadata from a class node
fun ClassNode.readMetadataLenient(): KotlinClassMetadata? {
    val metadataAnnotation = findAnnotation("kotlin/Metadata", false) ?: return null
    @Suppress("UNCHECKED_CAST")
    val metadata = Metadata(
        kind = metadataAnnotation["k"] as Int?,
        metadataVersion = (metadataAnnotation["mv"] as List<Int>?)?.toIntArray(),
        data1 = (metadataAnnotation["d1"] as List<String>?)?.toTypedArray(),
        data2 = (metadataAnnotation["d2"] as List<String>?)?.toTypedArray(),
        extraString = metadataAnnotation["xs"] as String?,
        packageName = metadataAnnotation["pn"] as String?,
        extraInt = metadataAnnotation["xi"] as Int?
    )
    return KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient(metadata)
}

// Converts a file to a ClassNode for bytecode inspection
fun File.toClassNode(): ClassNode {
    val node = ClassNode()
    this.inputStream().use { ClassReader(it).accept(node, ClassReader.SKIP_CODE) }
    return node
}

fun main() {
    val classFilePath = "build/classes/kotlin/main/org/example/SampleClass.class"
    val classFile = File(classFilePath)

    // Reads the bytecode and processes it into a ClassNode object
    val classNode = classFile.toClassNode()

    // Locates the @Metadata annotation and reads it leniently
    val metadata = classNode.readMetadataLenient()
    if (metadata != null && metadata is KotlinClassMetadata.Class) {
        // Inspects the parsed metadata
        val kmClass = metadata.kmClass

        // Prints class details
        println("Class name: ${kmClass.name}")
        println("Functions:")
        kmClass.functions.forEach { function ->
            println("- ${function.name}, Visibility: ${function.visibility}")
        }
    }
}
```

## Modify metadata

When using tools like [ProGuard](https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard) to shrink and optimize bytecode, some declarations may be removed from `.class` files.
ProGuard automatically updates metadata to keep it consistent with the modified bytecode.

However, if you're developing a custom tool that modifies Kotlin bytecode in a similar way, you need to ensure that metadata is adjusted accordingly.
With the `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library, you can update declarations, adjust attributes, and remove specific elements.

For example, if you use a JVM tool that deletes private methods from Java class files, you must also delete private functions from Kotlin metadata to maintain consistency:

1. Parse the metadata by using the `readStrict()` function to load the `@Metadata` annotation into a structured `KotlinClassMetadata` object.
2. Apply modifications by adjusting the metadata, such as filtering functions or altering attributes, directly within `kmClass` or other metadata structures.
3. Use the [`write()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/write.html) function to encode the modified metadata into a new `@Metadata` annotation.

Here's an example where private functions are removed from a class's metadata:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*

fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified class name
    val className = "org.example.SampleClass"

    try {
        // Retrieves the class object for the specified name
        val clazz = Class.forName(className)

        // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
        val metadataAnnotation = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)
        if (metadataAnnotation != null) {
            println("Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")

            // Parses metadata using the readStrict() function
            val metadata = KotlinClassMetadata.readStrict(metadataAnnotation)
            if (metadata is KotlinClassMetadata.Class) {
                val kmClass = metadata.kmClass

                // Removes private functions from the class metadata
                kmClass.functions.removeIf { it.visibility == Visibility.PRIVATE }
                println("Removed private functions. Remaining functions: ${kmClass.functions.map { it.name }}")

                // Serializes the modified metadata back
                val newMetadata = metadata.write()
                // After modifying the metadata, you need to write it into the class file
                // To do so, you can use a bytecode manipulation framework such as ASM
                
                println("Modified metadata: ${newMetadata}")
            } else {
                println("The metadata is not a class.")
            }
        } else {
            println("No Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")
        }
    } catch (e: ClassNotFoundException) {
        println("Class not found: $className")
    } catch (e: Exception) {
        println("Error processing metadata: ${e.message}")
        e.printStackTrace()
    }
}
```

> Instead of separately calling `readStrict()` and `write()`, you can use the [`transform()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/transform.html) function.
> This function parses metadata, applies transformations through a lambda, and writes the modified metadata automatically.
> 
{style="tip"}

## Create metadata from scratch

To create metadata for a Kotlin class file from scratch using the Kotlin Metadata JVM library:

1. Create an instance of `KmClass`, `KmPackage`, or `KmLambda`, depending on the type of metadata you want to generate.
2. Add attributes to the instance, such as the class name, visibility, constructors, and function signatures.

    > You can use the `apply()` [scope function](scope-functions.md) to reduce boilerplate code while setting properties.
    >
    {style="tip"}

3. Use the instance to create a `KotlinClassMetadata` object, which can generate a `@Metadata` annotation.
4. Specify the metadata version, such as `JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED`, and set flags (`0` for no flags, or copy flags from existing files if necessary).
5. Use the `ClassWriter` class from [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/) to embed metadata fields, such as `kind`, `data1` and `data2` into a `.class` file.

The following example demonstrates how to create metadata for a simple Kotlin class:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.*
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import org.objectweb.asm.*

fun main() {
    // Creates a KmClass instance
    val klass = KmClass().apply {
        name = "Hello"
        visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
        constructors += KmConstructor().apply {
            visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
            signature = JvmMethodSignature("<init>", "()V")
        }
        functions += KmFunction("hello").apply {
            visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
            returnType = KmType().apply {
                classifier = KmClassifier.Class("kotlin/String")
            }
            signature = JvmMethodSignature("hello", "()Ljava/lang/String;")
        }
    }

    // Serializes a KotlinClassMetadata.Class instance, including the version and flags, into a @kotlin.Metadata annotation
    val annotationData = KotlinClassMetadata.Class(
        klass, JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED, 0
    ).write()

    // Generates a .class file with ASM
    val classBytes = ClassWriter(0).apply {
        visit(Opcodes.V1_6, Opcodes.ACC_PUBLIC, "Hello", null, "java/lang/Object", null)
        // Writes @kotlin.Metadata instance to the .class file
        visitAnnotation("Lkotlin/Metadata;", true).apply {
            visit("mv", annotationData.metadataVersion)
            visit("k", annotationData.kind)
            visitArray("d1").apply {
                annotationData.data1.forEach { visit(null, it) }
                visitEnd()
            }
            visitArray("d2").apply {
                annotationData.data2.forEach { visit(null, it) }
                visitEnd()
            }
            visitEnd()
        }
        visitEnd()
    }.toByteArray()

    // Writes the generated class file to disk
    java.io.File("Hello.class").writeBytes(classBytes)

    println("Metadata and .class file created successfully.")
}
```

> For a more detailed example, see the [Kotlin Metadata JVM GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/50331fb1496378c82c862db04af597e4198ec645/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/test/kotlin/metadata/test/MetadataSmokeTest.kt#L43).
> 
{style="tip"}

## What's next

* [See the API reference for the Kotlin Metadata JVM library](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/).
* [Check out the Kotlin Metadata JVM GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/tree/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm).
* [Learn about module metadata and working with `.kotlin_module` files](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/ReadMe.md#module-metadata).

Commit message:

feat: add note about experimental annotation support in Kotlin metadata

docs/topics/metadata-jvm.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Kotlin Metadata JVM library)

<primary-label ref="advanced"/>

The [`kotlin-metadata-jvm`](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/tree/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm) library provides tools to read, modify, and generate metadata from Kotlin classes compiled for the JVM.
This metadata, stored in the [`@Metadata`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-metadata/) annotation within `.class` files,
is used by libraries and tools such as [`kotlin-reflect`](reflection.md) to inspect Kotlin-specific constructs such as properties, functions,
and classes at runtime.

> The `kotlin-reflect` library relies on metadata to retrieve Kotlin-specific class details at runtime.
> Any inconsistencies between the metadata and the actual `.class` file may lead to incorrect behavior when using reflection.
> 
{style="warning"}

You can also use the Kotlin Metadata JVM library to inspect various declaration attributes such as visibility or modality, or to generate and embed metadata into `.class` files.

## Add the library to your project

To include the Kotlin Metadata JVM library in your project, add the corresponding dependency configuration based on your build tool.

> The Kotlin Metadata JVM library follows the same versioning as the Kotlin compiler and standard library.
> Ensure that the version you use matches your project's Kotlin version.
> 
{style="note"}

### Gradle

Add the following dependency to your `build.gradle(.kts)` file:

<tabs group="build-tool">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation("org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-metadata-jvm:%kotlinVersion%")
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
// build.gradle
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-metadata-jvm:%kotlinVersion%'
}
```
</tab>
</tabs>

### Maven

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file.

```xml
<project>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-metadata-jvm</artifactId>
            <version>%kotlinVersion%</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
    ...
</project>
```


## Read and parse metadata

The `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library extracts structured information from compiled Kotlin `.class` files, such as class names, visibility, and signatures.
You can use it in projects that need to analyze compiled Kotlin declarations.
For example, the [Binary Compatibility Validator (BCV)](https://github.com/Kotlin/binary-compatibility-validator) relies on `kotlin-metadata-jvm` to print public API declarations.

You can start exploring Kotlin class metadata by retrieving the `@Metadata` annotation from a compiled class using reflection:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified name of the class
    val clazz = Class.forName("org.example.SampleClass")

    // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
    val metadata = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)

    // Checks if the metadata is present
    if (metadata != null) {
        println("This is a Kotlin class with metadata.")
    } else {
        println("This is not a Kotlin class.")
    }
}
```

After retrieving the `@Metadata` annotation, use either the [`readLenient()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/read-lenient.html) or the [`readStrict()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/read-strict.html) function from the [`KotlinClassMetadata`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/) API to parse it.
These functions extract detailed information about classes or files, while addressing different compatibility requirements:

* `readLenient()`: Use this function to read metadata, including metadata generated by newer Kotlin compiler versions. This function doesn't support modifying or writing metadata.
* `readStrict()`: Use this function when you need to modify and write metadata. The `readStrict()` function only works with metadata generated by Kotlin compiler versions fully supported by your project.

    > The `readStrict()` function supports metadata formats up to one version beyond [`JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-jvm-metadata-version/-companion/-l-a-t-e-s-t_-s-t-a-b-l-e_-s-u-p-p-o-r-t-e-d.html), which corresponds to the latest Kotlin version used in the project.
    > For example, if your project depends on `kotlin-metadata-jvm:2.1.0`, `readStrict()` can process metadata up to Kotlin `2.2.x`; otherwise, it throws an error to prevent mishandling unknown formats.
    > 
    > For more information, see the [Kotlin Metadata GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/ReadMe.md#detailed-explanation). 
    >
    {style="note"}

When parsing metadata, the `KotlinClassMetadata` instance provides structured information about class or file-level declarations.
For classes, use the [`kmClass`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-class/km-class.html) property to analyze detailed class-level metadata, such as the class name, functions, properties, and attributes like visibility.
For file-level declarations, the metadata is represented by the `kmPackage` property, which includes top-level functions
and properties from file facades generated by the Kotlin compiler.

The following code example demonstrates how to use `readLenient()` to parse metadata, analyze class-level details with `kmClass`, and retrieve file-level declarations with `kmPackage`:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*

fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified class name
    val className = "org.example.SampleClass"

    try {
        // Retrieves the class object for the specified name
        val clazz = Class.forName(className)

        // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
        val metadataAnnotation = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)
        if (metadataAnnotation != null) {
            println("Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")

            // Parses metadata using the readLenient() function
            val metadata = KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient(metadataAnnotation)
            when (metadata) {
                is KotlinClassMetadata.Class -> {
                    val kmClass = metadata.kmClass
                    println("Class name: ${kmClass.name}")

                    // Iterates over functions and checks visibility
                    kmClass.functions.forEach { function ->
                        val visibility = function.visibility
                        println("Function: ${function.name}, Visibility: $visibility")
                    }
                }
                is KotlinClassMetadata.FileFacade -> {
                    val kmPackage = metadata.kmPackage

                    // Iterates over functions and checks visibility
                    kmPackage.functions.forEach { function ->
                        val visibility = function.visibility
                        println("Function: ${function.name}, Visibility: $visibility")
                    }
                }
                else -> {
                    println("Unsupported metadata type: $metadata")
                }
            }
        } else {
            println("No Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")
        }
    } catch (e: ClassNotFoundException) {
        println("Class not found: $className")
    } catch (e: Exception) {
        println("Error processing metadata: ${e.message}")
        e.printStackTrace()
    }
}
```

> You can also store annotations in Kotlin metadata and access them using the `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library.
> This makes it possible to access annotations in metadata without manually matching them by signature, improving reliability for overloaded declarations.
> This feature is [Experimental](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) and requires opt-in.
> 
> For more information, see [Support for reading and writing annotations in Kotlin metadata](whatsnew2220.md#support-for-reading-and-writing-annotations-in-kotlin-metadata).
> 
{style="note"}

### Extract metadata from bytecode

While you can retrieve metadata using reflection, another approach is to extract it from bytecode using a bytecode manipulation framework such as [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/).

You can do this by following these steps:

1. Read the bytecode of a `.class` file using the ASM library's `ClassReader` class.
   This class processes the compiled file and populates a `ClassNode` object, which represents the class structure.
2. Extract the `@Metadata` from the `ClassNode` object. The example below uses a custom extension function `findAnnotation()` for this.
3. Parse the extracted metadata using the `KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient()` function.
4. Inspect the parsed metadata with the `kmClass` and `kmPackage` properties.

Here's an example:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*
import org.objectweb.asm.*
import org.objectweb.asm.tree.*
import java.io.File

// Checks if an annotation refers to a specific name
fun AnnotationNode.refersToName(name: String) =
    desc.startsWith('L') && desc.endsWith(';') && desc.regionMatches(1, name, 0, name.length)

// Retrieves annotation values by key
private fun List<Any>.annotationValue(key: String): Any? {
    for (index in (0 until size / 2)) {
        if (this[index * 2] == key) {
            return this[index * 2 + 1]
        }
    }
    return null
}

// Defines a custom extension function to locate an annotation by its name in a ClassNode
fun ClassNode.findAnnotation(annotationName: String, includeInvisible: Boolean = false): AnnotationNode? {
    val visible = visibleAnnotations?.firstOrNull { it.refersToName(annotationName) }
    if (!includeInvisible) return visible
    return visible ?: invisibleAnnotations?.firstOrNull { it.refersToName(annotationName) }
}

// Operator to simplify retrieving annotation values
operator fun AnnotationNode.get(key: String): Any? = values.annotationValue(key)

// Extracts Kotlin metadata from a class node
fun ClassNode.readMetadataLenient(): KotlinClassMetadata? {
    val metadataAnnotation = findAnnotation("kotlin/Metadata", false) ?: return null
    @Suppress("UNCHECKED_CAST")
    val metadata = Metadata(
        kind = metadataAnnotation["k"] as Int?,
        metadataVersion = (metadataAnnotation["mv"] as List<Int>?)?.toIntArray(),
        data1 = (metadataAnnotation["d1"] as List<String>?)?.toTypedArray(),
        data2 = (metadataAnnotation["d2"] as List<String>?)?.toTypedArray(),
        extraString = metadataAnnotation["xs"] as String?,
        packageName = metadataAnnotation["pn"] as String?,
        extraInt = metadataAnnotation["xi"] as Int?
    )
    return KotlinClassMetadata.readLenient(metadata)
}

// Converts a file to a ClassNode for bytecode inspection
fun File.toClassNode(): ClassNode {
    val node = ClassNode()
    this.inputStream().use { ClassReader(it).accept(node, ClassReader.SKIP_CODE) }
    return node
}

fun main() {
    val classFilePath = "build/classes/kotlin/main/org/example/SampleClass.class"
    val classFile = File(classFilePath)

    // Reads the bytecode and processes it into a ClassNode object
    val classNode = classFile.toClassNode()

    // Locates the @Metadata annotation and reads it leniently
    val metadata = classNode.readMetadataLenient()
    if (metadata != null && metadata is KotlinClassMetadata.Class) {
        // Inspects the parsed metadata
        val kmClass = metadata.kmClass

        // Prints class details
        println("Class name: ${kmClass.name}")
        println("Functions:")
        kmClass.functions.forEach { function ->
            println("- ${function.name}, Visibility: ${function.visibility}")
        }
    }
}
```

## Modify metadata

When using tools like [ProGuard](https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard) to shrink and optimize bytecode, some declarations may be removed from `.class` files.
ProGuard automatically updates metadata to keep it consistent with the modified bytecode.

However, if you're developing a custom tool that modifies Kotlin bytecode in a similar way, you need to ensure that metadata is adjusted accordingly.
With the `kotlin-metadata-jvm` library, you can update declarations, adjust attributes, and remove specific elements.

For example, if you use a JVM tool that deletes private methods from Java class files, you must also delete private functions from Kotlin metadata to maintain consistency:

1. Parse the metadata by using the `readStrict()` function to load the `@Metadata` annotation into a structured `KotlinClassMetadata` object.
2. Apply modifications by adjusting the metadata, such as filtering functions or altering attributes, directly within `kmClass` or other metadata structures.
3. Use the [`write()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/write.html) function to encode the modified metadata into a new `@Metadata` annotation.

Here's an example where private functions are removed from a class's metadata:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import kotlin.metadata.*

fun main() {
    // Specifies the fully qualified class name
    val className = "org.example.SampleClass"

    try {
        // Retrieves the class object for the specified name
        val clazz = Class.forName(className)

        // Retrieves the @Metadata annotation
        val metadataAnnotation = clazz.getAnnotation(Metadata::class.java)
        if (metadataAnnotation != null) {
            println("Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")

            // Parses metadata using the readStrict() function
            val metadata = KotlinClassMetadata.readStrict(metadataAnnotation)
            if (metadata is KotlinClassMetadata.Class) {
                val kmClass = metadata.kmClass

                // Removes private functions from the class metadata
                kmClass.functions.removeIf { it.visibility == Visibility.PRIVATE }
                println("Removed private functions. Remaining functions: ${kmClass.functions.map { it.name }}")

                // Serializes the modified metadata back
                val newMetadata = metadata.write()
                // After modifying the metadata, you need to write it into the class file
                // To do so, you can use a bytecode manipulation framework such as ASM
                
                println("Modified metadata: ${newMetadata}")
            } else {
                println("The metadata is not a class.")
            }
        } else {
            println("No Kotlin Metadata found for class: $className")
        }
    } catch (e: ClassNotFoundException) {
        println("Class not found: $className")
    } catch (e: Exception) {
        println("Error processing metadata: ${e.message}")
        e.printStackTrace()
    }
}
```

> Instead of separately calling `readStrict()` and `write()`, you can use the [`transform()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/kotlin-metadata-jvm/kotlin.metadata.jvm/-kotlin-class-metadata/-companion/transform.html) function.
> This function parses metadata, applies transformations through a lambda, and writes the modified metadata automatically.
> 
{style="tip"}

## Create metadata from scratch

To create metadata for a Kotlin class file from scratch using the Kotlin Metadata JVM library:

1. Create an instance of `KmClass`, `KmPackage`, or `KmLambda`, depending on the type of metadata you want to generate.
2. Add attributes to the instance, such as the class name, visibility, constructors, and function signatures.

    > You can use the `apply()` [scope function](scope-functions.md) to reduce boilerplate code while setting properties.
    >
    {style="tip"}

3. Use the instance to create a `KotlinClassMetadata` object, which can generate a `@Metadata` annotation.
4. Specify the metadata version, such as `JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED`, and set flags (`0` for no flags, or copy flags from existing files if necessary).
5. Use the `ClassWriter` class from [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/) to embed metadata fields, such as `kind`, `data1` and `data2` into a `.class` file.

The following example demonstrates how to create metadata for a simple Kotlin class:

```kotlin
// Imports the necessary libraries
import kotlin.metadata.*
import kotlin.metadata.jvm.*
import org.objectweb.asm.*

fun main() {
    // Creates a KmClass instance
    val klass = KmClass().apply {
        name = "Hello"
        visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
        constructors += KmConstructor().apply {
            visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
            signature = JvmMethodSignature("<init>", "()V")
        }
        functions += KmFunction("hello").apply {
            visibility = Visibility.PUBLIC
            returnType = KmType().apply {
                classifier = KmClassifier.Class("kotlin/String")
            }
            signature = JvmMethodSignature("hello", "()Ljava/lang/String;")
        }
    }

    // Serializes a KotlinClassMetadata.Class instance, including the version and flags, into a @kotlin.Metadata annotation
    val annotationData = KotlinClassMetadata.Class(
        klass, JvmMetadataVersion.LATEST_STABLE_SUPPORTED, 0
    ).write()

    // Generates a .class file with ASM
    val classBytes = ClassWriter(0).apply {
        visit(Opcodes.V1_6, Opcodes.ACC_PUBLIC, "Hello", null, "java/lang/Object", null)
        // Writes @kotlin.Metadata instance to the .class file
        visitAnnotation("Lkotlin/Metadata;", true).apply {
            visit("mv", annotationData.metadataVersion)
            visit("k", annotationData.kind)
            visitArray("d1").apply {
                annotationData.data1.forEach { visit(null, it) }
                visitEnd()
            }
            visitArray("d2").apply {
                annotationData.data2.forEach { visit(null, it) }
                visitEnd()
            }
            visitEnd()
        }
        visitEnd()
    }.toByteArray()

    // Writes the generated class file to disk
    java.io.File("Hello.class").writeBytes(classBytes)

    println("Metadata and .class file created successfully.")
}
```

> For a more detailed example, see the [Kotlin Metadata JVM GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/50331fb1496378c82c862db04af597e4198ec645/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/test/kotlin/metadata/test/MetadataSmokeTest.kt#L43).
> 
{style="tip"}

## What's next

* [See the API reference for the Kotlin Metadata JVM library](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-metadata-jvm/).
* [Check out the Kotlin Metadata JVM GitHub repository](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/tree/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm).
* [Learn about module metadata and working with `.kotlin_module` files](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/kotlinx-metadata/jvm/ReadMe.md#module-metadata).
