[//]: # (title: Mapping primitive data types from C – tutorial)

In this tutorial, you will learn what C data types are visible in Kotlin/Native and vice versa. You will: 
- See what [Data types are in C language](#types-in-c-language).
- Create a [tiny C Library](#example-c-library) that uses those types in exports.
- [Inspect generated Kotlin APIs from a C library](#inspect-generated-kotlin-apis-for-a-c-library).
- Find how [Primitive types in Kotlin](#primitive-types-in-kotlin) are mapped to C.

## Types in C language

What types are there in the C language? Let's take the
[C data types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_data_types) article from Wikipedia as a basis.
There are following types in the C programming language:
- basic types `char, int, float, double` with modifiers `signed, unsigned, short, long` 
- structures, unions, arrays
- pointers
- function pointers

There are also more specific types:
- boolean type (from [C99](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99))
- `size_t` and `ptrdiff_t` (also `ssize_t`)
- fixed width integer types, such as `int32_t` or `uint64_t` (from [C99](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99))

There are also the following type qualifiers in the C language: `const`, `volatile`, `restruct`, `atomic`.

The best way to see what C data types are visible in Kotlin is to try it.

## Example C library

Create a `lib.h` file to see how C functions are mapped into Kotlin:

```c
#ifndef LIB2_H_INCLUDED
#define LIB2_H_INCLUDED

void ints(char c, short d, int e, long f);
void uints(unsigned char c, unsigned short d, unsigned int e, unsigned long f);
void doubles(float a, double b);

#endif
```

The file is missing the `extern "C"` block, which is not needed for this example, but may be 
necessary if you use C++ and overloaded functions. The 
[C++ compatibility thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1041866/what-is-the-effect-of-extern-c-in-c) on Stackoverflow
contains more details on this.

For every set of `.h` files,
you will be using the [`cinterop` tool](native-c-interop.md)
from Kotlin/Native to generate a Kotlin/Native library,
or `.klib`. The generated library will bridge calls from Kotlin/Native to C. It includes
respective Kotlin declarations for the definitions form the `.h` files.
It is only necessary to have a `.h` file to run the `cinterop` tool. And you do not need to create a 
`lib.c` file, unless you want to compile and run the example.
More details on this are covered in the [C interop](native-c-interop.md) page. It is enough for
the tutorial to create the `lib.def` file with the following content:

```c
headers = lib.h
```

You may include all declarations directly into the `.def` file after a `---` separator.
It can be helpful to include macros or other C defines into the code generated by the `cinterop` tool.
Method bodies are compiled and fully included into the binary too. Use
that feature to have a runnable example without a need for a C compiler.
To implement that, you need to add implementations to the C functions from the `lib.h` file,
and place these functions into a `.def` file.
You will have the following `interop.def` result:

```c

---

void ints(char c, short d, int e, long f) { }
void uints(unsigned char c, unsigned short d, unsigned int e, unsigned long f) { }
void doubles(float a, double b) { }
```

The `interop.def` file is enough to compile and run the application or open it in an IDE.
Now it is time to create project files, open the project in
[IntelliJ IDEA](https://jetbrains.com/idea) and run it. 

## Inspect generated Kotlin APIs for a C library

While it is possible to use the command line, either directly or
by combining it with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file), this approach doesn't
scale well for big projects that have hundreds of files and libraries.
It is then better to use the Kotlin/Native compiler with a build system, as it
helps to download and cache the Kotlin/Native compiler binaries and libraries with
transitive dependencies and run the compiler and tests.
Kotlin/Native can use the [Gradle](https://gradle.org) build system through the [kotlin-multiplatform](mpp-discover-project.md#multiplatform-plugin) plugin.

We covered the basics of setting up an IDE compatible project with Gradle in the
[A Basic Kotlin/Native Application](native-gradle.md)
tutorial. Please check it out if you are looking for detailed first steps
and instructions on how to start a new Kotlin/Native project and open it in IntelliJ IDEA.
In this tutorial, we'll look at the advanced C interop related usages of Kotlin/Native and [multiplatform](mpp-discover-project.md#multiplatform-plugin) builds with Gradle.

First, create a project folder. All the paths in this tutorial will be relative to this folder. Sometimes
the missing directories will have to be created before any new files can be added.

Use the following `build.gradle(.kts)` Gradle build file:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
plugins {
    kotlin("multiplatform") version "%kotlinVersion%"
}

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

kotlin {
  linuxX64("native") { // on Linux
  // macosX64("native") { // on x86_64 macOS
  // macosArm64("native") { // on Apple Silicon macOS
  // mingwX64("native") { // on Windows
    val main by compilations.getting
    val interop by main.cinterops.creating
    
    binaries {
      executable()
    }
  }
}

tasks.wrapper {
  gradleVersion = "%gradleVersion%"
  distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.BIN
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '%kotlinVersion%'
}

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

kotlin {
  linuxX64('native') { // on Linux
  // macosX64("native") { // on x86_64 macOS
  // macosArm64("native") { // on Apple Silicon macOS
  // mingwX64('native') { // on Windows
    compilations.main.cinterops {
      interop 
    }
    
    binaries {
      executable()
    }
  }
}

wrapper {
  gradleVersion = '%gradleVersion%'
  distributionType = 'BIN'
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

The project file configures the C interop as an additional step of the build.
Let's move the `interop.def` file to the `src/nativeInterop/cinterop` directory.
Gradle recommends using conventions instead of configurations,
for example, the source files are expected to be in the `src/nativeMain/kotlin` folder.
By default, all the symbols from C are imported to the `interop` package,
you may want to import the whole package in our `.kt` files.
Check out the [kotlin-multiplatform](mpp-discover-project.md#multiplatform-plugin)
plugin documentation to learn about all the different ways you could configure it.

Create a `src/nativeMain/kotlin/hello.kt` stub file with the following content
to see how C primitive type declarations are visible from Kotlin:

```kotlin
import interop.*

fun main() {
  println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
  
  ints(/* fix me*/)
  uints(/* fix me*/)
  doubles(/* fix me*/)
}
```

Now you are ready to
[open the project in IntelliJ IDEA](native-get-started.md)
and to see how to fix the example project. While doing that,
see how C primitive types are mapped into Kotlin/Native.

## Primitive types in kotlin

With the help of IntelliJ IDEA's __Go to | Declaration__ or
compiler errors, you see the following generated API for the C functions:

```kotlin
fun ints(c: Byte, d: Short, e: Int, f: Long)
fun uints(c: UByte, d: UShort, e: UInt, f: ULong)
fun doubles(a: Float, b: Double)
```

C types are mapped in the way we would expect, note that `char` type is mapped to `kotlin.Byte` 
as it is usually an 8-bit signed value.

| C | Kotlin |
|---|--------|
| char  |  kotlin.Byte |
| unsigned char  |  kotlin.UByte |
| short |  kotlin.Short |
| unsigned short |  kotlin.UShort |
| int   |  kotlin.Int |
| unsigned int   |  kotlin.UInt |
| long long  |  kotlin.Long |
| unsigned long long |  kotlin.ULong |
| float |  kotlin.Float |
| double | kotlin.Double |

## Fix the code

You've seen all definitions and it is the time to fix the code.
Run the `runDebugExecutableNative` Gradle task [in IDE](native-get-started.md)
or use the following command to run the code:

```bash
./gradlew runDebugExecutableNative
```

The final code in the `hello.kt` file may look like that:
 
```kotlin
import interop.*

fun main() {
  println("Hello Kotlin/Native!")
  
  ints(1, 2, 3, 4)
  uints(5, 6, 7, 8)
  doubles(9.0f, 10.0)
}
```

## Next steps

Continue to explore more complicated C language types and their representation in Kotlin/Native
in the next tutorials:
- [Mapping struct and union types from C](mapping-struct-union-types-from-c.md)
- [Mapping function pointers from C](mapping-function-pointers-from-c.md)
- [Mapping strings from C](mapping-strings-from-c.md)

The [C interop documentation](native-c-interop.md)
covers more advanced scenarios of the interop.
