docs/topics/native/native-app-with-c-and-libcurl.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Create an app using C interop and libcurl – tutorial)

This tutorial demonstrates how to use IntelliJ IDEA to create a command-line application. You'll learn how to create
a simple HTTP client that can run natively on specified platforms using Kotlin/Native and the libcurl library.

The output will be an executable command-line app that you can run on macOS and Linux and make simple HTTP GET requests.

You can use the command line to generate a Kotlin library, either directly or with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file).
However, this approach doesn't scale well for larger projects that have hundreds of files and libraries.
Using a build system simplifies the process by downloading and caching the Kotlin/Native
compiler binaries and libraries with transitive dependencies, as well as by running the compiler and tests.
Kotlin/Native can use the [Gradle](https://gradle.org) build system through the [Kotlin Multiplatform plugin](gradle-configure-project.md#targeting-multiple-platforms).

## Before you start

1. Download and install the latest version of [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/).
2. Clone the [project template](https://github.com/Kotlin/kmp-native-wizard)
   by selecting **File** | **New** | **Project from Version Control** in IntelliJ IDEA and using this URL:

   ```none
   https://github.com/Kotlin/kmp-native-wizard
   ```  

3. Explore the project structure:

   ![Native application project structure](native-project-structure.png){width=700}

   The template includes a project with the files and folders you need to get started. It's important to understand
   that an application written in Kotlin/Native can target different platforms if the code does not have platform-specific
   requirements. Your code is placed in the `nativeMain` directory with a corresponding `nativeTest`. For this tutorial,
   keep the folder structure as is.

4. Open the `build.gradle.kts` file, the build script that contains the project settings. Pay special attention to the
   following in the build file:

    ```kotlin
    kotlin {
        val hostOs = System.getProperty("os.name")
        val isArm64 = System.getProperty("os.arch") == "aarch64"
        val isMingwX64 = hostOs.startsWith("Windows")
        val nativeTarget = when {
            hostOs == "Mac OS X" && isArm64 -> macosArm64("native")
            hostOs == "Mac OS X" && !isArm64 -> macosX64("native")
            hostOs == "Linux" && isArm64 -> linuxArm64("native")
            hostOs == "Linux" && !isArm64 -> linuxX64("native")
            isMingwX64 -> mingwX64("native")
            else -> throw GradleException("Host OS is not supported in Kotlin/Native.")
        }
    
        nativeTarget.apply {
            binaries {
                executable {
                    entryPoint = "main"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    ```

   * Targets are defined using `macosArm64`, `macosX64`, `linuxArm64`, `linuxX64`, and `mingwX64` for macOS, Linux,
     and Windows. See the complete list of [supported platforms](native-target-support.md).
   * The `binaries {}` block defines how the binary is generated and the entry point of the application.
     These can be left as default values.
   * C interoperability is configured as an additional step in the build. By default, all the symbols from C are
     imported to the `interop` package. You may want to import the whole package in `.kt` files. Learn more about
     [how to configure](gradle-configure-project.md#targeting-multiple-platforms) it.

## Create a definition file

When writing native applications, you often need access to certain functionalities that are not included in the [Kotlin
standard library](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/), such as making HTTP requests, reading and writing from
disk, and so on.

Kotlin/Native helps consume standard C libraries, opening up an entire ecosystem of functionality that exists
for pretty much anything you may need. Kotlin/Native is already shipped with a set of prebuilt [platform libraries](native-platform-libs.md),
which provide some additional common functionality to the standard library.

An ideal scenario for interop is to call C functions as if you are calling Kotlin functions, following the same
signature and conventions. This is when the cinterop tool comes in handy. It takes a C library and generates the
corresponding Kotlin bindings, so that the library can be used as if it were Kotlin code.

To generate these bindings, each library needs a definition file, usually with the same name as the library.
This is a property file that describes exactly how the library should be consumed.

In this app, you'll need the libcurl library to make some HTTP calls. To create its definition file:

1. Select the `src` folder and create a new directory with **File | New | Directory**.
2. Name the new directory **nativeInterop/cinterop**. This is the default convention for header file locations,
   though it can be overridden in the `build.gradle.kts` file if you use a different location.
3. Select this new subfolder and create a new `libcurl.def` file with **File | New | File**.
4. Update your file with the following code:

    ```c
    headers = curl/curl.h
    headerFilter = curl/*
    
    compilerOpts.linux = -I/usr/include -I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu
    linkerOpts.osx = -L/opt/local/lib -L/usr/local/opt/curl/lib -lcurl
    linkerOpts.linux = -L/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu -lcurl
    ```

   * `headers` is the list of header files to generate Kotlin stubs for. You can add multiple files here,
     separating each with a space. In this case, it's only `curl.h`. The referenced files need to be available
     on the specified path (in this case, it's `/usr/include/curl`).
   * `headerFilter` shows what exactly is included. In C, all the headers are also included when one file references
     another one with the `#include` directive. Sometimes it's not necessary, and you can add this parameter
     [using glob patterns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) to make adjustments.

     You can use `headerFilter` if you don't want to fetch external dependencies (such as system `stdint.h` header) into
     the interop library. Also, it may be useful for library size optimization and fixing potential conflicts between the
     system and the provided Kotlin/Native compilation environment.

   * If the behavior for a certain platform needs to be modified, you can use a format like `compilerOpts.osx` or `compilerOpts.linux`
     to provide platform-specific values to the options. In this case, they are macOS (the `.osx` suffix) and Linux (the `.linux` suffix).
     Parameters without a suffix are also possible (for example, `linkerOpts=`) and applied to all platforms.

   For the full list of available options, see [Definition file](native-definition-file.md#properties).

> You need to have the `curl` library binaries on your system to make the sample work. On macOS and Linux, they are usually
> included. On Windows, you can build it from [sources](https://curl.se/download.html) (you'll need Microsoft Visual Studio or
> Windows SDK command-line tools). For more details, see the [related blog post](https://jonnyzzz.com/blog/2018/10/29/kn-libcurl-windows/).
> Alternatively, you may want to consider a [MinGW/MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) `curl` binary.
>
{style="note"}

## Add interoperability to the build process

To use header files, make sure they are generated as a part of the build process. For this, add the following
`compilations {}` block to the `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
nativeTarget.apply {
    compilations.getByName("main") {
        cinterops {
            val libcurl by creating
        }
    }
    binaries {
        executable {
            entryPoint = "main"
        }
    }
}
```

First, `cinterops` is added, and then an entry for a definition file. By default, the name of the file is used.
You can override this with additional parameters:

```kotlin
cinterops {
    val libcurl by creating {
        definitionFile.set(project.file("src/nativeInterop/cinterop/libcurl.def"))
        packageName("com.jetbrains.handson.http")
        compilerOpts("-I/path")
        includeDirs.allHeaders("path")
    }
}
```

## Write the application code

Now that you have the library and the corresponding Kotlin stubs, you can use them from your application.
For this tutorial, convert the [simple.c](https://curl.se/libcurl/c/simple.html) example to Kotlin.

In the `src/nativeMain/kotlin/` folder, update your `Main.kt` file with the following code:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import libcurl.*

@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi::class)
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    val curl = curl_easy_init()
    if (curl != null) {
        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com")
        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L)
        val res = curl_easy_perform(curl)
        if (res != CURLE_OK) {
            println("curl_easy_perform() failed ${curl_easy_strerror(res)?.toKString()}")
        }
        curl_easy_cleanup(curl)
    }
}
```

As you can see, explicit variable declarations are eliminated in the Kotlin version, but everything else is pretty much
the same as the C version. All the calls you'd expect in the libcurl library are available in the Kotlin equivalent.

> This is a line-by-line literal translation. You could also write this in a more Kotlin idiomatic way.
>
{type="tip"}

## Compile and run the application

1. Compile the application. To do that, run the `runDebugExecutableNative` Gradle task from the task list or use the following
   command in the terminal:
 
   ```bash
   ./gradlew runDebugExecutableNative
   ```

   In this case, the part generated by the cinterop tool is implicitly included in the build.

2. If there are no errors during compilation, click the green **Run** icon in the gutter next to the `main()` function or
   use the <shortcut>Shift + Cmd + R</shortcut>/<shortcut>Shift + F10</shortcut> shortcut.

   IntelliJ IDEA opens the **Run** tab and shows the output — the contents of [example.com](https://example.com/):

   ![Application output with HTML-code](native-output.png){width=700}

You can see the actual output because the call `curl_easy_perform` prints the result to the standard output. You could
hide this using `curl_easy_setopt`.

> You can get the full project code in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-hands-on-intro-kotlin-native).
>
{style="note"}

## What's next

Learn more about [Kotlin's interoperability with C](native-c-interop.md).

Commit message:

feat: new page describing compatibility issues with native interoperability (#4866)

docs/topics/native/native-app-with-c-and-libcurl.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Create an app using C interop and libcurl – tutorial)

> The C libraries import is in [Beta](native-c-interop-stability.md). All Kotlin declarations
> generated by the cinterop tool from C libraries should have the `@ExperimentalForeignApi` annotation.
>
> Native platform libraries shipped with Kotlin/Native (like Foundation, UIKit, and POSIX)
> require opt-in only for some APIs.
>
{style="note"}

This tutorial demonstrates how to use IntelliJ IDEA to create a command-line application. You'll learn how to create
a simple HTTP client that can run natively on specified platforms using Kotlin/Native and the libcurl library.

The output will be an executable command-line app that you can run on macOS and Linux and make simple HTTP GET requests.

You can use the command line to generate a Kotlin library, either directly or with a script file (such as `.sh` or `.bat` file).
However, this approach doesn't scale well for larger projects that have hundreds of files and libraries.
Using a build system simplifies the process by downloading and caching the Kotlin/Native
compiler binaries and libraries with transitive dependencies, as well as by running the compiler and tests.
Kotlin/Native can use the [Gradle](https://gradle.org) build system through the [Kotlin Multiplatform plugin](gradle-configure-project.md#targeting-multiple-platforms).

## Before you start

1. Download and install the latest version of [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/).
2. Clone the [project template](https://github.com/Kotlin/kmp-native-wizard)
   by selecting **File** | **New** | **Project from Version Control** in IntelliJ IDEA and using this URL:

   ```none
   https://github.com/Kotlin/kmp-native-wizard
   ```  

3. Explore the project structure:

   ![Native application project structure](native-project-structure.png){width=700}

   The template includes a project with the files and folders you need to get started. It's important to understand
   that an application written in Kotlin/Native can target different platforms if the code does not have platform-specific
   requirements. Your code is placed in the `nativeMain` directory with a corresponding `nativeTest`. For this tutorial,
   keep the folder structure as is.

4. Open the `build.gradle.kts` file, the build script that contains the project settings. Pay special attention to the
   following in the build file:

    ```kotlin
    kotlin {
        val hostOs = System.getProperty("os.name")
        val isArm64 = System.getProperty("os.arch") == "aarch64"
        val isMingwX64 = hostOs.startsWith("Windows")
        val nativeTarget = when {
            hostOs == "Mac OS X" && isArm64 -> macosArm64("native")
            hostOs == "Mac OS X" && !isArm64 -> macosX64("native")
            hostOs == "Linux" && isArm64 -> linuxArm64("native")
            hostOs == "Linux" && !isArm64 -> linuxX64("native")
            isMingwX64 -> mingwX64("native")
            else -> throw GradleException("Host OS is not supported in Kotlin/Native.")
        }
    
        nativeTarget.apply {
            binaries {
                executable {
                    entryPoint = "main"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    ```

   * Targets are defined using `macosArm64`, `macosX64`, `linuxArm64`, `linuxX64`, and `mingwX64` for macOS, Linux,
     and Windows. See the complete list of [supported platforms](native-target-support.md).
   * The `binaries {}` block defines how the binary is generated and the entry point of the application.
     These can be left as default values.
   * C interoperability is configured as an additional step in the build. By default, all the symbols from C are
     imported to the `interop` package. You may want to import the whole package in `.kt` files. Learn more about
     [how to configure](gradle-configure-project.md#targeting-multiple-platforms) it.

## Create a definition file

When writing native applications, you often need access to certain functionalities that are not included in the [Kotlin
standard library](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/), such as making HTTP requests, reading and writing from
disk, and so on.

Kotlin/Native helps consume standard C libraries, opening up an entire ecosystem of functionality that exists
for pretty much anything you may need. Kotlin/Native is already shipped with a set of prebuilt [platform libraries](native-platform-libs.md),
which provide some additional common functionality to the standard library.

An ideal scenario for interop is to call C functions as if you are calling Kotlin functions, following the same
signature and conventions. This is when the cinterop tool comes in handy. It takes a C library and generates the
corresponding Kotlin bindings, so that the library can be used as if it were Kotlin code.

To generate these bindings, each library needs a definition file, usually with the same name as the library.
This is a property file that describes exactly how the library should be consumed.

In this app, you'll need the libcurl library to make some HTTP calls. To create its definition file:

1. Select the `src` folder and create a new directory with **File | New | Directory**.
2. Name the new directory **nativeInterop/cinterop**. This is the default convention for header file locations,
   though it can be overridden in the `build.gradle.kts` file if you use a different location.
3. Select this new subfolder and create a new `libcurl.def` file with **File | New | File**.
4. Update your file with the following code:

    ```c
    headers = curl/curl.h
    headerFilter = curl/*
    
    compilerOpts.linux = -I/usr/include -I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu
    linkerOpts.osx = -L/opt/local/lib -L/usr/local/opt/curl/lib -lcurl
    linkerOpts.linux = -L/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu -lcurl
    ```

   * `headers` is the list of header files to generate Kotlin stubs for. You can add multiple files here,
     separating each with a space. In this case, it's only `curl.h`. The referenced files need to be available
     on the specified path (in this case, it's `/usr/include/curl`).
   * `headerFilter` shows what exactly is included. In C, all the headers are also included when one file references
     another one with the `#include` directive. Sometimes it's not necessary, and you can add this parameter
     [using glob patterns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)) to make adjustments.

     You can use `headerFilter` if you don't want to fetch external dependencies (such as system `stdint.h` header) into
     the interop library. Also, it may be useful for library size optimization and fixing potential conflicts between the
     system and the provided Kotlin/Native compilation environment.

   * If the behavior for a certain platform needs to be modified, you can use a format like `compilerOpts.osx` or `compilerOpts.linux`
     to provide platform-specific values to the options. In this case, they are macOS (the `.osx` suffix) and Linux (the `.linux` suffix).
     Parameters without a suffix are also possible (for example, `linkerOpts=`) and applied to all platforms.

   For the full list of available options, see [Definition file](native-definition-file.md#properties).

> You need to have the `curl` library binaries on your system to make the sample work. On macOS and Linux, they are usually
> included. On Windows, you can build it from [sources](https://curl.se/download.html) (you'll need Microsoft Visual Studio or
> Windows SDK command-line tools). For more details, see the [related blog post](https://jonnyzzz.com/blog/2018/10/29/kn-libcurl-windows/).
> Alternatively, you may want to consider a [MinGW/MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) `curl` binary.
>
{style="note"}

## Add interoperability to the build process

To use header files, make sure they are generated as a part of the build process. For this, add the following
`compilations {}` block to the `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
nativeTarget.apply {
    compilations.getByName("main") {
        cinterops {
            val libcurl by creating
        }
    }
    binaries {
        executable {
            entryPoint = "main"
        }
    }
}
```

First, `cinterops` is added, and then an entry for a definition file. By default, the name of the file is used.
You can override this with additional parameters:

```kotlin
cinterops {
    val libcurl by creating {
        definitionFile.set(project.file("src/nativeInterop/cinterop/libcurl.def"))
        packageName("com.jetbrains.handson.http")
        compilerOpts("-I/path")
        includeDirs.allHeaders("path")
    }
}
```

## Write the application code

Now that you have the library and the corresponding Kotlin stubs, you can use them from your application.
For this tutorial, convert the [simple.c](https://curl.se/libcurl/c/simple.html) example to Kotlin.

In the `src/nativeMain/kotlin/` folder, update your `Main.kt` file with the following code:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.cinterop.*
import libcurl.*

@OptIn(ExperimentalForeignApi::class)
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    val curl = curl_easy_init()
    if (curl != null) {
        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com")
        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_FOLLOWLOCATION, 1L)
        val res = curl_easy_perform(curl)
        if (res != CURLE_OK) {
            println("curl_easy_perform() failed ${curl_easy_strerror(res)?.toKString()}")
        }
        curl_easy_cleanup(curl)
    }
}
```

As you can see, explicit variable declarations are eliminated in the Kotlin version, but everything else is pretty much
the same as the C version. All the calls you'd expect in the libcurl library are available in the Kotlin equivalent.

> This is a line-by-line literal translation. You could also write this in a more Kotlin idiomatic way.
>
{type="tip"}

## Compile and run the application

1. Compile the application. To do that, run the `runDebugExecutableNative` Gradle task from the task list or use the following
   command in the terminal:
 
   ```bash
   ./gradlew runDebugExecutableNative
   ```

   In this case, the part generated by the cinterop tool is implicitly included in the build.

2. If there are no errors during compilation, click the green **Run** icon in the gutter next to the `main()` function or
   use the <shortcut>Shift + Cmd + R</shortcut>/<shortcut>Shift + F10</shortcut> shortcut.

   IntelliJ IDEA opens the **Run** tab and shows the output — the contents of [example.com](https://example.com/):

   ![Application output with HTML-code](native-output.png){width=700}

You can see the actual output because the call `curl_easy_perform` prints the result to the standard output. You could
hide this using `curl_easy_setopt`.

> You can get the full project code in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-hands-on-intro-kotlin-native).
>
{style="note"}

## What's next

Learn more about [Kotlin's interoperability with C](native-c-interop.md).
