docs/topics/data-analysis/kotlin-notebook-add-dependencies.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Add dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook)

<tldr>
   <p>This is the third part of the <strong>Getting started with Kotlin Notebook</strong> tutorial. Before proceeding, make sure you've completed the previous steps.</p>
   <p><img src="icon-1-done.svg" width="20" alt="First step"/> <a href="kotlin-notebook-set-up-env.md">Set up an environment</a><br/>
      <img src="icon-2-done.svg" width="20" alt="Second step"/> <a href="kotlin-notebook-create.md">Create a Kotlin Notebook</a><br/>
      <img src="icon-3.svg" width="20" alt="Third step"/> <strong>Add dependencies to a Kotlin Notebook</strong><br/>
  </p>
</tldr>

You've already created your first [Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-overview.md)! Now let's learn how to add dependencies to libraries, which
is necessary to unlock advanced features.

> The Kotlin standard library can be used out of the box, so you don't have to import it.
> 
{style="note"}

You can load any library from the Maven repository by specifying its coordinates using Gradle-style
syntax in any code cell. 
However, Kotlin Notebook has a simplified method to load popular libraries in the form of the [`%use` statement](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#import-libraries):

```kotlin
// Replace libraryName with the library dependency you want to add
%use libraryName
// Specify a version, if required
%use libraryName(version)
// Add v= to trigger autocomplete
%use libraryName(v=version)
// Example: kotlinx.datetime:0.7.1
%use datetime(v=0.7.1)
```

You can also use the autocompletion feature in Kotlin Notebook to quickly access available libraries:

![Autocompletion feature in Kotlin Notebook](autocompletion-feature-notebook.png){width=700}

## Add Kotlin DataFrame and Kandy libraries to your Kotlin Notebook

Let's add two popular Kotlin library dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook:
* The [Kotlin DataFrame library](https://kotlin.github.io/dataframe/home.html) gives you the power to manipulate data in your Kotlin projects. 
You can use it to retrieve data from [APIs](data-analysis-work-with-api.md), [SQL databases](data-analysis-connect-to-db.md), and [various file formats](data-analysis-work-with-data-sources.md), such as CSV or JSON.
* The [Kandy library](https://kotlin.github.io/kandy/welcome.html) provides a powerful and flexible DSL for [creating charts](data-analysis-visualization.md).

To add these libraries:

1. Click **Add Code Cell** to create a new code cell.
2. Enter the following code in the code cell:

    ```kotlin
    // Ensures that the latest available library versions are used
    %useLatestDescriptors
    
    // Imports the Kotlin DataFrame library
    %use dataframe
    
    // Imports the Kotlin Kandy library
    %use kandy
    ```

3. Run the code cell.

    When a `%use` statement is executed, it downloads the library dependencies and adds the default imports to your notebook.

    > Make sure to run the code cell with the `%use libraryName` line before you run any other code cells that rely on the 
    > library.
    >
    {style="note"}

4. To import data from a CSV file using the Kotlin DataFrame library, use the `.read()` function in a new code cell:

    ```kotlin
    // Creates a DataFrame by importing data from the "netflix_titles.csv" file.
    val rawDf = DataFrame.read("netflix_titles.csv")
    
    // Displays the raw DataFrame data
    rawDf
    ```

    > You can download this example CSV from the [Kotlin DataFrame examples GitHub repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/dataframe/blob/master/examples/notebooks/netflix/netflix_titles.csv).
    > Add it to your project directory.
    > 
    {style="tip"}

    ![Using DataFrame to display data](add-dataframe-dependency.png){width=700}

5. In a new code cell, use the `.plot` method to visually represent the distribution of TV shows and Movies in your DataFrame:

    ```kotlin
    rawDf
        // Counts the occurrences of each unique value in the column named "type"
        .valueCounts(sort = false) { type }
        // Visualizes data in a bar chart specifying the colors
        .plot {
            bars {
                x(type)
                y("count")
                fillColor(type) {
                    scale = categorical(range = listOf(Color.hex("#00BCD4"), Color.hex("#009688")))
                }
            }
    
            // Configures the layout of the chart and sets the title
            layout {
                title = "Count of TV Shows and Movies"
                size = 900 to 550
            }
        }
    ```

The resulting chart:

![Visualization using the Kandy library](kandy-library.png){width=700}

Congratulations on adding and utilizing these libraries in your Kotlin Notebook!
This is just a glimpse into what you can achieve with Kotlin Notebook and its [supported libraries](data-analysis-libraries.md).

## What's next

* Learn how to [share your Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-share.md)
* See more details about [adding dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#add-dependencies)
* For a more extensive guide using the Kotlin DataFrame library, see [Retrieve data from files](data-analysis-work-with-data-sources.md)
* For an extensive overview of tools and resources available for data science and analysis in Kotlin, see [Kotlin and Java libraries for data analysis](data-analysis-libraries.md)

Commit message:

feat: update Notebook docs (#5089)
* update Notebook docs

* Danil review

* Danil review round 2

docs/topics/data-analysis/kotlin-notebook-add-dependencies.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Add dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook)

<tldr>
   <p>This is the third part of the <strong>Getting started with Kotlin Notebook</strong> tutorial. Before proceeding, make sure you've completed the previous steps.</p>
   <p><img src="icon-1-done.svg" width="20" alt="First step"/> <a href="kotlin-notebook-set-up-env.md">Set up an environment</a><br/>
      <img src="icon-2-done.svg" width="20" alt="Second step"/> <a href="kotlin-notebook-create.md">Create a Kotlin Notebook</a><br/>
      <img src="icon-3.svg" width="20" alt="Third step"/> <strong>Add dependencies to a Kotlin Notebook</strong><br/>
  </p>
</tldr>

You've already created your first [Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-overview.md)! Now let's learn how to add dependencies to libraries, which
is necessary to unlock advanced features.

> The Kotlin standard library can be used out of the box, so you don't have to import it.
> 
{style="note"}

You can load any library from the Maven repository by specifying its coordinates using Gradle-style
syntax in any code cell. 
However, Kotlin Notebook has a simplified method to load popular libraries in the form of the [`%use` statement](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#import-libraries):

```kotlin
// Replace libraryName with the library dependency you want to add
%use libraryName
// Specify a version, if required
%use libraryName(version)
// Add v= to trigger autocomplete
%use libraryName(v=version)
// Example: kotlinx.datetime:0.7.1
%use datetime(v=0.7.1)
```

You can also use the autocompletion feature in Kotlin Notebook to quickly access available libraries:

![Autocompletion feature in Kotlin Notebook](autocompletion-feature-notebook.png){width=700}

> Kotlin Notebook has a set of integrated libraries to perform various tasks, from deep learning to HTTP networking.
> See [Import supported libraries](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#import-libraries).
> 
> You can also add and use libraries that are not yet integrated into Kotlin Notebook. See [Integrate new libraries](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#integrate-new-libraries).
>
{style="note"}

## Add Kotlin DataFrame and Kandy libraries to your Kotlin Notebook

Let's add two popular Kotlin library dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook:
* The [Kotlin DataFrame library](https://kotlin.github.io/dataframe/home.html) gives you the power to manipulate data in your Kotlin projects. 
You can use it to retrieve data from [APIs](data-analysis-work-with-api.md), [SQL databases](data-analysis-connect-to-db.md), and [various file formats](data-analysis-work-with-data-sources.md), such as CSV or JSON.
* The [Kandy library](https://kotlin.github.io/kandy/welcome.html) provides a powerful and flexible DSL for [creating charts](data-analysis-visualization.md).

To add these libraries:

1. Click **Add Code Cell** to create a new code cell.
2. Enter the following code in the code cell:

    ```kotlin
    // Ensures that the latest available library versions are used
    %useLatestDescriptors
    
    // Imports the Kotlin DataFrame library
    %use dataframe
    
    // Imports the Kotlin Kandy library
    %use kandy
    ```

3. Run the code cell.

    When a `%use` statement is executed, it downloads the library dependencies and adds the default imports to your notebook.

    > Make sure to run the code cell with the `%use libraryName` line before you run any other code cells that rely on the 
    > library.
    >
    {style="note"}

4. To import data from a CSV file using the Kotlin DataFrame library, use the `.read()` function in a new code cell:

    ```kotlin
    // Creates a DataFrame by importing data from the "netflix_titles.csv" file.
    val rawDf = DataFrame.read("netflix_titles.csv")
    
    // Displays the raw DataFrame data
    rawDf
    ```

    > You can download this example CSV from the [Kotlin DataFrame examples GitHub repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/dataframe/blob/master/examples/notebooks/netflix/netflix_titles.csv).
    > Add it to your project directory.
    > 
    {style="tip"}

    ![Using DataFrame to display data](add-dataframe-dependency.png){width=700}

5. In a new code cell, use the `.plot` method to visually represent the distribution of TV shows and Movies in your DataFrame:

    ```kotlin
    rawDf
        // Counts the occurrences of each unique value in the column named "type"
        .valueCounts(sort = false) { type }
        // Visualizes data in a bar chart specifying the colors
        .plot {
            bars {
                x(type)
                y("count")
                fillColor(type) {
                    scale = categorical(range = listOf(Color.hex("#00BCD4"), Color.hex("#009688")))
                }
            }
    
            // Configures the layout of the chart and sets the title
            layout {
                title = "Count of TV Shows and Movies"
                size = 900 to 550
            }
        }
    ```

The resulting chart:

![Visualization using the Kandy library](kandy-library.png){width=700}

Congratulations on adding and utilizing these libraries in your Kotlin Notebook!
This is just a glimpse into what you can achieve with Kotlin Notebook and its [supported libraries](data-analysis-libraries.md).

## What's next

* Learn how to [share your Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-share.md)
* See more details about [adding dependencies to your Kotlin Notebook](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/kotlin-notebook.html#add-dependencies)
* For a more extensive guide using the Kotlin DataFrame library, see [Retrieve data from files](data-analysis-work-with-data-sources.md)
* For an extensive overview of tools and resources available for data science and analysis in Kotlin, see [Kotlin and Java libraries for data analysis](data-analysis-libraries.md)
