docs/topics/data-analysis/kotlin-notebook-set-up-env.md, before:

[//]: # (title: Set up an environment)

<tldr>
   <p>This is the first part of the <strong>Getting started with Kotlin Notebook</strong> tutorial:</p>
   <p><img src="icon-1.svg" width="20" alt="First step"/> <strong>Set up an environment</strong><br/>
      <img src="icon-2-todo.svg" width="20" alt="Second step"/> Create a Kotlin Notebook<br/>
      <img src="icon-3-todo.svg" width="20" alt="Third step"/> Add dependencies to a Kotlin Notebook<br/>
  </p>
</tldr>

Before you create your first [Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-overview.md), you need to set up an environment.

## Set up the environment

1. Download and install the latest version of [IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/index.html).
2. In IntelliJ IDEA, select **IntelliJ IDEA | Settings | Plugins** or **File | Settings | Plugins**.
3. In the **Marketplace** tab, browse the **Kotlin Notebook** plugin and install it.

   ![Install Kotlin Notebook from the marketplace](kotlin-notebook-plugin.png){width=700}

   > Alternatively, you can download the [Kotlin Notebook plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16340-kotlin-notebook)
   > and install it manually.
   >
   {style="note"}

4. Click **OK** to apply the changes and restart your IDE if prompted.

## Next step

In the next part of the tutorial, you will learn how to create a Kotlin Notebook.

**[Proceed to the next chapter](kotlin-notebook-create.md)**

Commit message:

feat: Kotlin notebook enabled by default (#4811)
* update: Kotlin notebook enabled by default

* Andrey review

docs/topics/data-analysis/kotlin-notebook-set-up-env.md, after:

[//]: # (title: Set up an environment)

<tldr>
   <p>This is the first part of the <strong>Getting started with Kotlin Notebook</strong> tutorial:</p>
   <p><img src="icon-1.svg" width="20" alt="First step"/> <strong>Set up an environment</strong><br/>
      <img src="icon-2-todo.svg" width="20" alt="Second step"/> Create a Kotlin Notebook<br/>
      <img src="icon-3-todo.svg" width="20" alt="Third step"/> Add dependencies to a Kotlin Notebook<br/>
  </p>
</tldr>

Before you create your first [Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-overview.md), you need to set up an environment.

## Set up the environment

Kotlin Notebook relies on the [Kotlin Notebook plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16340-kotlin-notebook), 
which is bundled and enabled in IntelliJ IDEA by default.

To use Kotlin Notebook, download and install the latest version of [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/index.html).

If the Kotlin Notebook features are not available, ensure the plugin is enabled:

1. In IntelliJ IDEA, select **IntelliJ IDEA | Settings | Plugins**.
2. In the **Installed** tab, find the **Kotlin Notebook** plugin, and select the checkbox next to the plugin name.

   ![Install Kotlin Notebook](kotlin-notebook-plugin.png){width=700}

3. Click **OK** to apply the changes and restart your IDE if prompted.

## Next step

In the next part of the tutorial, you will learn how to create a Kotlin Notebook.

**[Proceed to the next chapter](kotlin-notebook-create.md)**
